 
 
 
In the Iowa Supreme Court 
 
No. 24–1886 
 
Submitted March 25, 2026—Filed June 12, 2026 
 
5th and Walnut Parking LLC, 5th and Walnut Tower LLC, 5th and 
Court LLC, Justin Mandelbaum, and Sean Mandelbaum, 
 
Appellees, 
 
vs. 
 
City of Des Moines, 
 
Appellant. 
 
 
City of Des Moines, 
 
Third-Party-Plaintiff Appellant, 
 
vs. 
 
John Mandelbaum, 
 
Third-Party-Defendant Appellee. 
 
 
Appeal from the Iowa District Court for Polk County, Lawrence P. 
McLellan, Business Specialty Court Judge. 
 
The City appeals and the developers cross-appeal from a judgment for 
money damages on a failed real estate project. Appeal Affirmed in Part and 
Reversed in Part; Cross-Appeal Affirmed. 
 
Waterman, J., delivered the opinion of the court, in which all participating 
justices joined. McDermott, J., took no part in the consideration or decision of 
the case. 

 
2 
  
 
Thomas G. Fisher Jr. (argued), Deputy City Attorney, and John O. 
Haraldson, Assistant City Attorney, Des Moines, for appellant. 
 
Todd M. Lantz (argued), Mark E. Weinhardt, William C. Admussen, and 
Jason R. Smith of Weinhardt & Lantz, P.C., Des Moines, for appellee. 
 
 

 
3 
  
Waterman, Justice. 
The Tower at Fifth and Walnut in downtown Des Moines was supposed to 
be a testament to modern design, with upscale residential lofts, a movie theater, 
and ample parking, but what began as a promising urban development devolved 
into a costly litigation quagmire. This breach of contract case was tried to the 
court. The trial court’s factual findings are binding upon us if supported by 
substantial evidence. CMT Highway, LLC v. Logan Contractors Supply, Inc., __ 
N.W.3d ___, ___, 2026 WL 1108827, at *4 (Iowa Apr. 24, 2026). We view the 
evidence in a light most favorable to the trial court’s judgment. Id. Our 
dispositions of the fact-bound issues in this appeal are largely dictated by this 
standard of review. 
For the reasons explained below, we affirm the district court judgment 
against the City of Des Moines for breach of contract and the damages awarded 
for that breach in the amount of $4,353,677. We vacate its judgment against the 
city for tortious interference with contract. And we affirm the district court 
judgment rejecting the parties’ additional claims for relief. 
I. Background Facts and Proceedings. 
A. Early Stages of the Fifth and Walnut Development. In 2009, Justin 
Mandelbaum, a real estate developer who had spent his career to that point 
working internationally and on the East Coast of the United States, moved back 
to his hometown of Des Moines. Justin was eager to ply his trade in the local 
real estate market. He joined Mandelbaum Properties, his family’s real estate 
development firm, and began hunting for development opportunities in 
downtown Des Moines. 
In 2013, Justin and his team began looking at property around Court 
Avenue. When a property became available, Justin submitted a request for 

 
4 
  
proposal (RFP), a document that outlines a development plan that a local 
government can use to evaluate the benefits of a given project. Justin’s RFP 
proposed constructing a movie theater and entertainment complex. Despite 
interest in the RFP, the City of Des Moines (the City) rejected Justin’s proposal 
in favor of a Hy-Vee grocery store by the Polk County Courthouse.  
In 2014, Matt Anderson, the City’s economic development director, 
approached Justin to discuss another lot near Court Avenue. Anderson told 
Justin to submit a developer-initiated proposal—a means of streamlining the 
sale of City land. Justin submitted his proposal. 
In the summer of 2015, the Des Moines City Council (City Council) voted 
to accept for consideration Justin’s proposal and to open a ninety-day 
competition period, during which time other developers could make a pitch for 
their projects. No developer submitted a counterproposal.  
In December of 2015, Justin and his team submitted a pro forma for the 
City’s consideration. The pro forma was notable for two reasons. First, part of 
Justin’s pro forma—and a fly in the ointment throughout this litigation—was a 
parking garage.  
Second, the pro forma contained a 5% development fee for Justin and his 
team’s work on the project. Pursuant to the pro forma, the City would pay that 
fee upon completion of the parking garage. Parking garages typically are not 
profitable on their own. So, to make the project work, Justin needed subsidies. 
To begin, the City agreed to sell Justin and his team a site for $4 million 
dollars, with a forgivable “economic development” loan for the same amount, 
meaning that Justin would acquire the land for zero net cash outlay. The City 
also offered tax incentives, bond financing, and shortfall loans to facilitate the 
project. 

 
5 
  
In early 2017, after months of negotiations, Justin and the City reached a 
final development agreement (Development Agreement) for the project. The 
project was to consist of three elements: a parking garage with space for 
restaurants and retail stores, which was to be completed by August of 2020; a 
forty-story tower with a high-end hotel and residential lofts (the Tower), and a 
theater complex with an upscale dine-in movie theater and additional retail 
space (the Theater)—both of which were to be completed by August of 2028. By 
finishing the parking garage first, Justin and his team would provide parking 
spaces for the City and revenue to pay off their forgivable loan.  
Article 8, Section 8.2(E) of the Development Agreement provided: 
E. Developer agrees that if the costs of constructing the 
Parking Garage exceed the Stipulated Price due to no fault of the 
City, then Developer shall be responsible for the increase in costs 
associated with completing construction of the Parking Garage. City 
acknowledges that City is not entitled to participate in any savings 
realized 
by 
Developer 
in 
the 
acquisition, 
construction 
or 
development of the Parking Garage or Parking Parcel, and that any 
savings or benefits realized shall accrue 100% to Developer. 
This meant that if Justin and his team completed the garage under budget, then 
they were entitled to keep the amount saved.  
Under Article 10 of the Development Agreement, both the City and Justin 
and his team had certain rights. Most importantly for this litigation, 
Sections 10.1 and 10.4 of the Development Agreement provided the terms 
governing a default by either party. 
Section 10.1 stated: 
A. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, in 
the event of a default by either party under this Agreement, the 
aggrieved party may by written Notice of Default to the party in 
default, demand that it proceed immediately to cure or remedy such 
default, and, in any event, complete such cure or remedy within 
forty-five (45) days (or such other time as may be specifically 
provided herein) after receipt of such notice. Any default on an 

 
6 
  
obligation to pay money shall be cured within five (5) business days 
after receipt of such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
non-monetary default reasonably requires more than forty-five (45) 
days to cure, such default shall not constitute a breach of this 
Agreement if the defaulting party commences to cure the default 
promptly upon receipt of the notice of the default and with due 
diligence 
thereafter 
continuously 
prosecutes 
such 
cure 
to 
completion. 
B. In the event that a Notice of Default is given as provided 
above and action to cure or remedy the default is not promptly taken 
or not diligently pursued, or the default is not cured or remedied 
within the time allowed, then the party in default may be declared 
to be in breach of this Agreement by the aggrieved party. In the event 
of a breach of this Agreement, in addition to such other rights as the 
aggrieved party may have hereunder, the aggrieved party may 
institute proceedings for damages for breach of contract. In any 
claim, action or civil proceeding wherein damages are sought for 
breach of this Agreement, City shall have the same rights and 
liabilities as a private non-governmental party for any breach of this 
Agreement. 
Section 10.4, which governed unforeseen, enforced delays in the project (called 
force majeure or acts of God), provided:  
Except for an obligation to pay money to the other pursuant to this 
Agreement, neither City nor Developer shall be considered in breach 
of, or in default of, its obligations with respect to this Agreement, or 
any portion thereof, including redevelopment, or the beginning and 
completion of construction of the Improvements, in the event of an 
enforced delay in the performance of such obligations due to 
unforeseeable causes beyond its control and without its fault or 
negligence, including, but not restricted to, temporary injunctions, 
acts of God, acts of the public enemy, war, or terrorism, acts of 
government (provided City may not rely upon its own acts as reason 
for delay), acts of the other party, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine 
restrictions, strikes or other labor disruptions, freight embargoes, 
economic or financial market collapse causing a national loss of 
available financing upon commercially reasonable terms, and 
unusually severe weather or delays of subcontractors due to such 
causes; it being the purpose and intent of this provision that in the 
event of the occurrence of any such enforced delay, the time or times 
for performance of the obligations of City or of Developer, as the case 
may be, shall be extended for the period of the enforced delay: 
Provided, that the party seeking the benefit of the provisions of this 

 
7 
  
article shall: i) within twenty (20) days after the beginning of any 
such enforced delay, have notified the other party thereof, in writing, 
and of the cause or causes thereof, and setting forth the anticipated 
extension required as a result of the enforced delay; and, ii) exercise 
reasonable diligence to mitigate the event and the impact thereof. 
While the parties later amended other sections of the Development Agreement, 
Sections 10.1 and 10.4 remained unchanged.  
Also in 2017, Justin formed three limited liability companies to manage 
the various aspects of the development. For the parking garage, he formed 5th 
and Walnut Parking LLC (Parking LLC). For the Tower, he formed 5th and Walnut 
Tower LLC (Tower LLC). And, for the Theater, he formed 5th and Court LLC 
(Court LLC). These entities, together with Justin and his brother Sean, will be 
referred to collectively throughout this opinion as “the Developers.” 
Once they finalized the terms of the Development Agreement, the 
Developers were to submit their documents for City Council approval. Before the 
council could adopt the proposal, Iowa law required a second bidding period 
during which other developers could submit competing proposals. 
In March, Blackbird Investments—another development firm—submitted 
an alternative development proposal. Blackbird’s proposal included a larger 
parking garage, low-income housing units, and a hotel. Its construction timeline 
was also condensed compared with the Developers’. 
The City remained interested in the Developers’ proposal, but Scott 
Sanders, the City manager, asked the Developers to accelerate their project 
timeline. Specifically, Sanders requested that the Developers complete the 
parking garage by October 31, 2019, and that they begin construction on the 
Tower on that same day. Justin reluctantly agreed to those dates, though he 
warned the City that by accelerating the pace of construction, it was removing 

 
8 
  
much of the cushion for delays. Ultimately Blackbird withdrew its proposal, and 
the City approved the Development Agreement.  
B. The Project Begins. Initially, the Developers financed the project with 
money borrowed from Lincoln Savings Bank. The Mandelbaums personally 
guaranteed loans amounting to about $5 million dollars. But they paid off the 
Lincoln Savings’ loans when, after seeking a construction loan for the parking 
garage, they borrowed money from Bankers Trust (the Bank). The Developers 
would continue working with the Bank for the remainder of the project.  
Almost immediately after the City and the Developers signed the 
Development Agreement, they began negotiations to amend it. The amendment 
was necessary because of issues related to the City’s skywalk system. The 
Developers were also eager for an amendment because a hitch in the chain of 
title for a six-and-a-half-foot alleyway abutting the development site prevented 
them from beginning work. To resolve this problem, the Developers asked the 
City to convey the alley to them. Meanwhile, the Developers’ architects were 
unable to proceed with the project designs until the alley issue was resolved. 
This delay lasted three and a half months, until the City approved an amendment 
in July of 2017. Despite the delay, the Developers did not request an extension 
of deadlines. 
After the City finally resolved the alley issue, the Developers submitted 
conceptual design plans for the entire project. These plans included several 
major updates: they increased the number of parking spaces to be included in 
the garage, they increased the number of rooms to be included in the hotel, and 
they incorporated an aluminum screen façade to encompass the parking garage. 
These updates necessitated a second amendment to the Development 
Agreement. That amendment, which the City Council approved in December 

 
9 
  
2017, extended the completion deadline for the parking garage to February 2020; 
however, the deadline to begin construction on the Tower or Theater (October 31, 
2019) remained unchanged. 
In April 2018, the Developers and the City again discussed increasing the 
garage’s parking capacity. This time, they agreed to add another sixty parking 
spaces. The Bank wanted this update in writing. But when the Developers began 
pressing for the third amendment, the City grew reticent. At root, the City was 
unwilling to pay the Developers for additional parking spaces, despite previously 
agreeing to a per-space price formula. 
Months dragged on, and the parties could not reach an agreement about 
the additional parking spaces. Finally, in September, the City Council and the 
Developers agreed to a third amendment that incorporated the new parking 
spaces. For the entirety of the April to September delay, the Developers’ 
architects were unable to work on the development. While the Developers and 
the City were discussing the third amendment, the deadline to commence 
construction on the parking garage arrived. To avoid a default, the Developers 
negotiated with Sanders to get an informal extension of deadlines. Under this 
agreement, the Developers would reach a so-called “secondary closing”1 by 
August 10, 2018, and would begin construction of the garage by August 24, 
2018. The Developers met neither of these deadlines. The City did not issue a 
notice of default for either of the missed deadlines. Ultimately, the third amended 
Development Agreement formally extended the deadlines for the parking garage; 
it left unchanged the October 31, 2019 deadline to begin construction on the 
Tower or Theater. 
 
1As used in this opinion, the “preliminary closing” occurred when the Developers 
purchased the land from the City, and the “secondary closing” occurred when the Developers 
fulfilled certain conditions that permitted them to begin construction of the project. 

 
10 
  
Shortly after the parties agreed on the terms of the third amended 
development agreement, the Developers began construction on the parking 
garage. 
C. More Delays. By May 2019, it became increasingly clear that the 
Developers: (1) could not begin construction of the Theater on October 31, 2019, 
and (2) that it would be difficult for them to begin construction of the Tower by 
that date. The Developers communicated these facts to the City. The City initially 
was receptive to an amendment that would extend the construction deadlines. 
To that end, the Developers drafted a proposed extension of six months for the 
Tower and twelve months for the Theater. 
In August, The City responded to the Developers’ draft with its own 
proposed amendment. In September, the parties bandied additional drafts back 
and forth. But, because of political pressures, the City did not want to put an 
amended development agreement to a vote during the month of October, 
meaning that a formalized extension was delayed until November at the earliest. 
In the interim, Sanders sent the Developers a letter in which he claimed 
that Justin had admitted that the Developers would not be able to complete the 
façade of the parking garage by the August 16, 2020 deadline. Justin disputed 
this assertion. Sanders’s letter went on to say:  
To allow for continued discussions on the text of the proposed 
amendment, I agree that in the exercise of the authority delegated 
to me by the City Council to administer the Agreement, I will refrain 
from issuing any notice of default for the failure to timely satisfy the 
obligations listed above before December 18, 2019. 
The Developers understood this letter to mean that the City was extending their 
deadlines. 
At their meeting in November, the Developers told the City that SCB (the 
architectural firm that the Developers had hired) was wrongfully withholding 

 
11 
  
documents from the Developers. This, and other delays, led the Developers to 
request a yearlong extension on the deadline to construct the Tower. The City’s 
representatives were receptive to this proposal. 
A few weeks after the meeting, Carrie Kruse, an economic development 
coordinator working for the City, contacted the Developers and told them that 
they would have to present some of the revisions to their project to the Urban 
Design Review Board (UDRB). Justin presented the revisions, and, in December, 
the UDRB approved the new plans, with some comments from board members.  
Also in December, the Developers applied for a building permit for the 
Tower and Theater. They needed to apply for the permit during 2019 because 
the City was adopting a new building code in 2020, and the parties wanted to 
grandfather in the project under the old code. 
Still awaiting an amendment to the Development Agreement, the 
Developers met with City representatives on December 5. Sanders told the 
Developers that there was no political will to amend the Development Agreement 
unless the City received something in return. Sanders proposed that the 
Developers place $5 million dollars in an escrow account, which would serve as 
an incentive for the Developers to advance the project in a timely manner. Justin 
described this proposal as a shakedown. The meeting ended with the parties at 
loggerheads. 
On December 18, Sanders wrote a letter to Justin and to the Bank’s 
representatives. That letter made several points: (1) Sanders was frustrated that 
Justin was seeking an amendment to the Development Agreement, (2) Justin 
admitted that he needed a year’s delay to meet the City’s requirements, (3) Justin 
had told the City that he could not complete the west façade of the parking garage 
by the deadline in the Development Agreement, (4) the Developers were insisting 

 
12 
  
on design changes that were unacceptable to the City, and (5) the Developers’ 
insistence on new terms had stymied any progress on an amendment to the 
Development Agreement. Justin disputed each of these points. Importantly, 
Sanders’s letter stated: “This letter IS NOT a Notice of Default pursuant to 
Article 10 of the Agreement. This is instead a request to resolve and remedy the 
existing deficiencies under the Agreement by a negotiated settlement and 
amendment to the Agreement.” His letter then listed various problems with the 
Developers’ proposed revisions to their project plans. According to the letter, the 
UDRB had identified these problems at the initial hearing, and, upon 
consideration, the City had rejected the proposed design revisions. Finally, 
Sanders wrote: 
If the Developers will formally request a continued deferral by 
the City of further enforcement action to allow negotiations to 
proceed on an amendment to the existing Agreement consistent with 
the terms outlined above, I will submit and support that request to 
the City Council at its next meeting on January 13, 2020. Such a 
request would be interpreted as demonstrating the Developers’ 
confidence that the Residential Building will be completed on the 
delayed schedule. The absence of such a request will be interpreted 
as evidence that the Developers have lost confidence in their ability 
to timely perform under even a delayed schedule. In that event, the 
City may immediately give formal notice of the existing defaults and 
seek to enforce its legal remedies under the Agreement. If the 
Developers will formally request a continued deferral as identified 
above, the parties can immediately proceed with negotiations on an 
amendment consistent with the terms identified above. The 
Developers will also need to promptly seek an amendment to the 
approved Conceptual Development Plan to accommodate the 
current design of the Residential Building and South Building. 
Meanwhile, the Developers paid their architects, SCB, about $800,000 to 
release the design specifications that SCB had been withholding. This move freed 
up the designs for review by the Developers and eventual submission as part of 
the permitting process. 

 
13 
  
In January 2020, Sanders asked Justin to draft a letter that Sanders could 
send to the City Council. Justin began working on a draft. Sanders requested 
that Justin send him a working draft before sending the formal letter. Justin 
obliged. 
In this draft, Justin explained the delays in construction and reassured 
the City that the Developers were committed to completing the project. Justin 
requested that the City extend the deadline for completion of the parking garage 
to November 30, 2020. 
After receiving the draft letter, Sanders sent two return drafts to Justin. 
Sanders did not tell Justin that he had edited the document, but there were 
numerous changes between the drafts and the original. The second draft (sent 
January 16, 2020) included such changes as: (1) a statement that the 
Developers would agree to escrow $4 million until the Tower was constructed; 
and (2) an additional term that, if the Developers failed to execute a construction 
contract and financing agreement for the Tower by January 15, 2021, then the 
parking garage would pass into a receivership until the Developers began 
construction of the Tower or until April 30, 2022, whichever came first. If 
April 30, 2022, came and went without construction of the Tower and the 
Developers did not timely remedy the default, then the City would have the 
option to recover ownership of the entire project and the escrowed funds. 
The Developers found the modified letter unacceptable. Justin called 
Sanders and told him that they could not endorse the new draft. Sanders told 
Justin to hold off on sending the original letter so that they could continue 
discussions. 

 
14 
  
On February 6, Sanders sent Justin a draft letter that he, Sanders, 
intended to send at the end of that week. The letter stated in part: 
By letter of October 14, 2019 and December 18, 2019, I 
expressed my frustration that Justin Mandelbaum was seeking 
amendments to the Amended and Restated Urban Renewal 
Agreement for Sale of Land for Private Redevelopment that I could 
not support. No amendment has been negotiated, and the 
Developers continue to insist on new terms and design changes that 
are not acceptable to the City. 
This letter IS NOT a Notice of Default pursuant to Article 10 
of the Agreement. This is instead a notice that the City will draft an 
amendment to the Development Agreement for City Council that is 
intended to operate as a negotiated settlement agreement to resolve 
and remedy the Developers’ ongoing noncompliance with their 
obligations under the Agreement. 
The letter went on to state that the City would agree to an amendment to the 
Development Agreement, including an extension of deadlines, so long as the 
Developers agreed to escrow $4 million dollars and adopt the above-mentioned 
receivership scheme, among other changes. The letter concluded with the 
following paragraph: 
I expect an amendment to the Development Agreement be 
presented for council consideration on or before the March 23, 2020 
City Council Meeting. In the event the City and Developer cannot 
agree on an Amendment to the Development Agreement, the City 
may immediately give formal notice of the existing defaults and seek 
to enforce its legal remedies under the Agreement. As mentioned in 
prior communications, the Developers will also need to promptly 
seek an amendment to the approved Conceptual Development Plan 
to accommodate the current design of the Residential Building and 
South Building. 
No amendment to the Development Agreement was presented to the City Council 
in March 2020. Nor did the City give the Developers a Notice of Default. 
D. The Pandemic. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization 
declared that the spread of the COVID-19 virus had reached pandemic levels. 
Two days later, the President of the United States declared a state of emergency. 

 
15 
  
Two days after that, the mayor of Des Moines declared a city-wide state of 
emergency. On March 17, the Governor of Iowa issued a proclamation declaring 
a statewide emergency and mandating the closure of many businesses. On 
March 18, Justin sent a letter to Sanders. The letter invoked the Developers’ 
rights under Section 10.4 of the Development Agreement, stating: “Below is an 
email Nate sent to Roger providing notice of an enforced delay. We are required 
per the Development Agreement to provide this notice within 20 days of the onset 
of the enforced delay.” 
Just under a week later, Sanders responded to Justin’s letter. Near the top 
of Sanders’s response, he wrote:  
As with the prior letters, this letter IS NOT a Notice of Default 
pursuant to Article 10 of the Agreement. However, pursuant to 
Section 10.6 of the Agreement, the City’s delay in giving notice of 
default is not a waiver of that right, and the City reserves the right 
to give such notice at any time. 
The letter continued, explaining that financial markets “have certainly not 
collapsed,” and pointing out that the Developers had not identified specific 
impediments resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In response, the Developers wrote a follow-up letter providing Sanders with 
additional evidence elaborating on the dire nature of the pandemic and the 
specific negative consequences that it would have on the development. Sanders 
never responded to this letter. 
In April, the City sent the Developers the draft of the amended 
Development Agreement that they had discussed back in February. The draft 
amendment contained numerous additional conditions even beyond the escrow 
and receivership terms that Sanders had previously floated. Justin called 
Sanders to express his displeasure at the proposed amendment. Sanders asked 
Justin to put his complaints into writing. Justin did so. 

 
16 
  
On May 27, in response to Justin’s objections to the proposed amendment, 
Sanders wrote another letter. In this letter, Sanders took umbrage at what he 
perceived to be the Developers’ delay in reviewing the proposed amendment, and 
he proposed additional changes to the development agreement. Near the bottom 
of the letter, Sanders stated: 
The City will issue a Notice of Default for all presently existing 
defaults under the existing agreement unless each of the following 
occur: 
• On or by June 5, 2020, the developer and Bankers Trust 
must agree to terms of the Second Substituted Agreement that are 
acceptable to the City. 
• On or by June 12, 2020, the Developer and Bankers Trust 
must have executed the Second Substituted Agreement. 
• On or by June 22, 2020, the Des Moines City Council must 
have approved the Second Substituted Agreement. 
On June 5, Justin carbon copied the City Council and responded to 
Sanders. Justin argued that the Developers had complied with the Development 
Agreement at least as to the parking garage. He argued that the Developers had 
been diligently pursuing the project and that, because of the enforced delay 
resulting from COVID-19, they were entitled to more time. And he argued that, 
in the event of a default, the Development Agreement afforded the Developers a 
right to cure. 
On June 9, Justin met with Sanders and Kruse. During that meeting, 
Justin explained that the pandemic had collapsed traditional financing markets, 
and, therefore, the Developers’ original financing plan was no longer viable. 
According to Sanders, it was at this meeting that he lost confidence in the 
Developers’ ability to finance the remainder of the project. 
On June 24, the City issued its first notices of default to the Developers. 
The notices identified the act of default as the Developers’ failure to begin 

 
17 
  
construction on the Tower or Theater by the October 31, 2019 deadline. The 
default notices contained an election of remedies that stated: 
The City of Des Moines hereby elects to acquire the Property 
and all Improvements, as provided in the Development Agreement 
pursuant to section 10.2(C) as an alternate remedy to the remedies 
allowed by sections 10(D) and (E) of the Development Agreement, 
without waiving any of its other available remedies. The City hereby 
notifies [Parking LLC, Court LLC, and Tower LLC] that each are 
obligated to convey Property as defined in the Development 
Agreement to the City in accordance with their respective obligations 
under section 10.2(C)(2) as agreed to or assumed. 
On June 30, the Developers’ attorneys sent a letter to the City demanding 
rescission of the default notices. They received no response. 
The City’s decision to issue default notices jeopardized the remainder of 
the development because the Bank, in funding the project, relied on the City’s 
involvement to mitigate risk. Essentially, the Bank had trusted the City to cover 
any debt service payments as they came due. When the City began to doubt the 
Developers’ ability to bring the project to completion, the Bank feared for its 
investment. This problem grew more acute as August 31—the maturity date of 
the Developers’ first construction loan—approached.  
When the Developers first realized, in spring 2020, that they would not be 
able to complete the parking garage by August 31, they informed the Bank and 
began discussing an extension. But although their past discussions indicated 
that the Bank would be willing to grant the Developers an extension, the tenor 
of the conversations changed as the likelihood that the City would issue default 
notices increased. The Bank warned the Developers that it would not grant an 
extension unless they were in compliance with the Development Agreement. 
On August 6, Justin wrote a letter to City Attorney Thomas Fisher. In that 
letter, he asked the City to rescind the default notices, and he explained that if 
the City pursued default remedies, then the Developers’ construction loan with 

 
18 
  
the Bank would come due and the Bank would commence foreclosure 
proceedings. The City refused. On August 31, 2020, the Developers’ construction 
loan matured. Neither the City nor Bankers Trust extended the Developers’ 
deadlines. 
E. The Litigation. On September 14, 2020, the Bank filed a petition to 
foreclose its mortgage and a motion to appoint a receiver to take over the parking 
garage project from Parking LLC. 
Just over a week later, the Developers filed a cross-petition against the 
City. The cross-petition brought claims for: (1) breach of contract on behalf of all 
cross-claimants, (2) tortious interference with an existing contract with the Bank 
on behalf of Parking LLC and the Mandelbaums, (3) indemnity on behalf of 
Parking LLC and the Mandelbaums, (4) declaratory relief on behalf of all 
cross-claimants, (5) interference with existing and prospective economic 
advantage on behalf of all cross-claimants, (6) injunctive relief against the 
default notices on behalf of all cross-claimants, and (7) injunctive relief against 
the conveyance from Bankers Trust to the City. 
On October 1, the district court appointed Christensen Development as 
receiver for the parking garage. On January 25, 2021, the district court 
authorized Christensen to sell the garage. The City purchased the property, 
extinguishing the Developers’ debt to the Bank. This prevented the Developers 
from completing the garage, earning the development fee, and collecting the 
savings off the stipulated cost of construction. 
On January 26, the City answered the Developers’ pleading and 
counterclaimed for: (1) fraud in the inducement against Justin Mandelbaum, 
(2) breach of contract (failure to perform) against all counterclaim defendants, 
(3) breach of contract (default and failure to repay loan) against all counterclaim 

 
19 
  
defendants, (4) breach of contract (specific performance) against all counterclaim 
defendants, 
(5) fraudulent 
or 
negligent 
misrepresentation 
against 
all 
cross-claimants, (6) unjust enrichment against all cross-claimants, (7) breach of 
contract (default and failure to repay loan) against all counterclaim defendants, 
and (8) a third-party claim against Justin Mandelbaum personally. 
On March 10, Bankers Trust, satisfied because of the repayment of its 
construction loan, dismissed without prejudice its petition against the 
Developers and the City. This dismissal meant that the only active litigation was 
between the Developers and the City. 
On March 23, the Developers moved for partial summary judgment, asking 
the court to resolve the following questions: (1) “Does Section 10.4 of the 
Development Agreement apply to the deadline to commence construction of the 
Tower and the South Building?” (2) “Can Section 10.4 of the Development 
Agreement protect the Developer from being considered in default or breach of 
the Development Agreement even though the enforced delay arose after the 
deadlines 
to 
commence 
construction?” 
(3) “Does 
Section 10.1 
of 
the 
Development Agreement require the City to provide an opportunity to cure a 
default for failure to commence construction by the deadlines stated in 
Section 6.2?” (4) “Is the special remedy under Section 10.2(C) of the 
Development Agreement available to the City before completion of the Garage 
and conversion to permanent financing?” (5) “Aside from whether the special 
remedy under Section 10.2(C) was properly elected, does that special remedy 
eliminate the Developer’s obligations to the City under the Forgivable Loan?” 
(6) “Can the City sue Justin Mandelbaum for fraud based on commitments to 
complete buildings that were stated in the Development Agreement, as the City 
has alleged in Counterclaim I?” (7) “Can the City use an equitable claim of unjust 

 
20 
  
enrichment to create a property right in the Developer’s documents, designs, and 
contracts and create a remedy requiring conveyance of that property that is 
contrary to the parties’ express contract, as the City has alleged in 
Counterclaim VI?” (8) “Can Justin Mandelbaum and Sean Mandelbaum be 
personally liable for the Developer’s general obligations under the Development 
Agreement . . .?” The City resisted the developers’ motion for partial summary 
judgment. 
On September 24, the district court granted in part and denied in part the 
Developers’ motion for summary judgment. Specifically, the district court 
determined that: (1) the special remedy under Section 10.2(C) of the 
Development Agreement terminated the Developers’ obligation to make any 
further payments to the City, and (2) a party cannot rely on the doctrine of unjust 
enrichment where an express contract governs the same subject matter. The 
district court granted the Developers’ motion for summary judgment as to 
questions 5 and 7, and it dismissed the City’s counterclaim for unjust 
enrichment. 
On May 19, 2022, the City sought leave to amend its answer to add an 
eighth counterclaim: foreclosure of a real estate mortgage. The district court 
granted the City leave to amend, but the City never filed the amended 
counterclaim. So, the district court never ruled on the City’s eighth counterclaim; 
therefore, we will not address it in this appeal. 
On July 15, the City moved for summary judgment on all the Developers’ 
claims, and it sought summary judgment on its second, third, and fourth 
counterclaims for breach of contract. The Developers resisted the City’s motion. 
On October 6, the district court denied the City’s motion for summary judgment. 
From October 17 to 31, the parties tried their case to the bench. The district 

 
21 
  
court then allowed each side to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions 
of law. 
The district court ultimately issued a 170-page decision captioned 
“Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Judgment,” which found that: (1) the 
City breached the Development Agreement, (2) the City tortiously interfered with 
the existing construction loan agreement between Parking LLC and Bankers 
Trust, (3) the Developers’ claim for indemnity was moot, (4) the Developers’ 
request for declaratory relief was moot, (5) the Developers failed to prove that the 
City tortiously interfered with their prospective business advantage, (6) the 
Developers’ claims for injunctive relief were moot, (7) Parking LLC was entitled 
to judgment in the amount of $4,353,677 against the City, (8) the Developers 
were not entitled to any additional claimed damages, (9) title to the parcel of land 
on which the tower was to be constructed would remain with Tower LLC, (10) title 
to the parcel of land on which the theater was to be built would remain with 
Court LLC, (11) the Developers were entitled to judgment in their favor with 
respect to the City’s breach of contract claims, and (12) the City dismissed its 
counterclaims under counts I (fraud in the inducement against Justin 
Mandelbaum) and V (fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation against all 
cross-claimants). The court also reaffirmed its ruling granting summary 
judgment to Parking LLC on the City’s count VI (unjust enrichment), reaffirmed 
its ruling granting summary judgment to Parking LLC on the City’s count VII 
(breach of contract (default and failure to repay the forgivable loan)), and taxed 
all court costs to the City. 
The Developers filed a motion to amend under Iowa Rule of Civil 
Procedure 1.904(2). The district court granted the motion with respect to certain 
factual issues in the case, but it declined to modify its legal conclusions. 

 
22 
  
The City appealed and the Developers cross-appealed, each challenging 
different aspects of the district court’s final judgment. The City argues that the 
district court erred (1) in refusing to hold that statutory discretionary function 
immunity protected the City from the Developers’ tort claims; (2) in finding that 
the City, and not the Developers, had breached the Development Agreement; 
(3) in holding that the City had tortiously interfered with the contract between 
the Developers and the Bank; and (4) in awarding certain damages to the 
Developers and refusing to return title of the property to the City. 
Besides opposing the City’s appellate arguments, the Developers identified 
their own challenges to the district court’s judgment. Specifically, the Developers 
argue that the district court erred (1) in not awarding damages for the long-term 
ownership and operation of the garage, (2) in failing to award reliance damages 
already incurred for the development of the Tower and the Theater, (3) in 
declining to give the Developers a so-called “tax true-up,” (4) in failing to award 
damages for the value of a design error claim that would have belonged to 
Parking LLC, and (5) in refusing to award damages for foreclosure defense costs. 
We retained the case. 
II. Standard of Review. 
This appeal primarily turns on the district court’s resolution of claims and 
counterclaims for breach of contract. Generally, such claims are tried at law. 
Atl. Veneer Corp. v. Sears, 232 N.W.2d 499, 502 (Iowa 1975). As we have stated: 
Where the basic rights of the parties derive from the nonperformance 
of a contract, where the remedy is monetary, and where the damages 
are “full and certain, remedies are usually provided by actions at 
law, and equity has no jurisdiction.” “If . . . both legal relief and 
equitable relief are demanded, the action is ordinarily classified 
according to what appears to be its primary purpose or its 
controlling issue.” 

 
23 
  
Van Sloun v. Agans Bros., 778 N.W.2d 174, 179 (Iowa 2010) (omission in original) 
(first quoting Berry Seed Co. v. Hutchings, 74 N.W.2d 233, 237 (Iowa 1956), and 
then quoting Mosebach v. Blythe, 282 N.W.2d 755, 758 (Iowa Ct. App. 1979)). 
Here, the primary purpose of the action was to adjudicate rights under the 
Development Agreement. Although there were some equitable appendages to the 
case, the question of which party breached the contract and the consequent 
award of ascertainable monetary damages were the beating heart of the matter. 
Also, the district court ruled on objections and, at the end of the case, issued an 
order and judgment—as it would have in a law action—rather than a decree, 
which it would have issued had the case been equitable in nature. See id. at 178–79. 
Accordingly, our review is for correction of errors at law. See id.; Iowa R. App. P. 
6.907. We are not bound by the district court’s legal conclusions. Id. at 179. 
“The standard of review for a breach of contract action is for correction of 
errors at law.” CMT Highway LLC, ___ N.W.3d at ___, 2026 WL 1108827, at *4 
(quoting Iowa Mktg. Ctr. L.L.C. v. Baccam, 841 N.W.2d 107, 110 (Iowa 2013)). 
“The trial court’s factual findings have the force of a special verdict because this 
case was tried to the bench.” Id. “Those findings bind our review ‘if supported by 
substantial evidence.’ ” Id. (quoting Iowa R. App. P. 6.904(3)(a)). “Evidence is 
substantial if a reasonable mind would accept it as adequate to reach the same 
findings.” Id. (quoting Meyers v. Delaney, 529 N.W.2d 288, 290 (Iowa 1995)). “We 
view the evidence ‘in the light most favorable to the trial court judgment.’ ” Id. 
(quoting Brokaw v. Winfield-Mt. Union Cmty. Sch. Dist., 788 N.W.2d 386, 388 
(Iowa 2010)). “[W]e construe the evidence broadly to uphold, rather than defeat, 
the trial court’s judgment.” Grall v. Meyer, 173 N.W.2d 61, 63 (Iowa 1969). We 
review rulings on the remedies for breach of contract for correction of errors at 
law. UE Loc. 893/IUP v. State, 997 N.W.2d 1, 11 (Iowa 2023).  

 
24 
  
“We generally review a trial court’s decision to deny or award fees for an 
abuse of discretion.” K.C. v. Iowa Dist. Ct., 6 N.W.3d 297, 301 (Iowa 2024). “An 
abuse of discretion occurs when a court’s ruling is based on grounds that are 
unreasonable or untenable, ‘or when the record lacks substantial evidence to 
support the court’s conclusion.’ ” Id. (citation omitted) (quoting Pierce v. Nelson, 
509 N.W.2d 471, 473 (Iowa 1993)). “We will presume the district court’s 
discretionary decisions [on fee claims] are correct until the complaining party 
shows the contrary.” Lee v. State, 906 N.W.2d 186, 194 (Iowa 2018). 
III. Analysis. 
We will first address the City’s appeal. We determine that the district 
court’s factual findings are supported by substantial evidence and are binding 
on appeal. We conclude that the district court correctly construed and applied 
the terms of the Development Agreement. We affirm the judgment against the 
City on the Developers’ breach of contract claim and the damages awarded on 
that claim. We reverse the judgment against the City on the Developers’ claim 
for tortious interference with their contract with the Bank. And we reject several 
additional grounds for reversal that the City proposes.  
We then address the Developers’ cross-appeal, which seeks additional 
damages against the City. Again, we determine that the district court’s factual 
findings are supported by substantial evidence and are binding on this 
cross-appeal. We affirm the district court’s rejection of the Developers’ claims for 
additional damages. 
A. The City’s Appeal. 
1. Did the Developers breach the Development Agreement? Or was the City 
the breaching party? Because the meaning of the Development Agreement is the 
focus of this case, we begin with the City’s argument that it was the Developers, 

 
25 
  
and not the City, that breached the Development Agreement. The core of the 
City’s argument is that the Development Agreement obligated the Developers to 
begin construction on either the Tower or the Theater by October 31, 2019. The 
Developers’ failure to meet that deadline, the City argues, constitutes a breach 
of contract that excuses any alleged breach by the City. Not so, say the 
Developers, because the City was in talks to extend that deadline and didn’t 
issue any notice of default until after contractual deadlines were effectively 
suspended by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Developers argue that the district court correctly determined that the 
City breached the Development Agreement when it issued default notices in the 
summer of 2020, contrary to the force majeure clause and without affording the 
Developers an opportunity to cure the alleged default. We agree with the 
Developers. 
To succeed on a breach of contract claim, the claimant must prove the 
following:  
(1) [T]he existence of a contract; (2) the terms and conditions of the 
contract; (3) that it has performed all the terms and conditions 
required under the contract; (4) the defendant’s breach of the 
contract in some particular way; and (5) that plaintiff has suffered 
damages as a result of the breach. 
Molo Oil Co. v. River City Ford Truck Sales, Inc., 578 N.W.2d 222, 224 (Iowa 1998).  
In this case, elements (1) and (2) are undisputed: both sides agree that the 
contract was the Development Agreement, and they agree about its written terms 
and conditions. The dispute is: which party first breached the Development 
Agreement? If the first breach occurred when the Developers failed to begin 
construction on the Tower or Theater by the original October 31, 2019 deadline, 
then the City’s notices of default the following summer would not be actionable. 
If, on the other hand, the contract required a notice of default and time to cure 

 
26 
  
before establishing a material breach, and if the City failed to follow that process 
before issuing the first default notice during the pandemic, then the district 
court’s ruling that the City materially breached the Development agreement is 
correct.  
We begin our analysis with the operative text of the Development 
Agreement. See Dolly Invs., LLC v. MMG Sioux City, LLC, 984 N.W.2d 168, 175 
(Iowa 2023) (enforcing a lease contract provision requiring notice of default and 
opportunity to cure to establish material breach); Genesis Equities, LLC v. 
Duffield, No. 24–1105, 2025 WL 2924541, at *12 (Iowa Ct. App. Oct. 15, 2025) 
(determining that a contract required written notice of default and failure to cure 
before party could recover for material breach). Section 10.1 governs defaults 
and provides: 
A. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, in 
the event of a default by either party under this Agreement, the 
aggrieved party may by written Notice of Default to the party in 
default, demand that it proceed immediately to cure or remedy such 
default, and, in any event, complete such cure or remedy within 
forty-five (45) days (or such other time as may be specifically 
provided herein) after receipt of such notice. Any default on an 
obligation to pay money shall be cured within five (5) business days 
after receipt of such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
non-monetary default reasonably requires more than forty-five (45) 
days to cure, such default shall not constitute a breach of this 
Agreement if the defaulting party commences to cure the default 
promptly upon receipt of the notice of the default and with due 
diligence thereafter continuously prosecutes such cure to completion. 
B. In the event that a Notice of Default is given as provided 
above and action to cure or remedy the default is not promptly taken 
or not diligently pursued, or the default is not cured or remedied 
within the time allowed, then the party in default may be declared 
to be in breach of this Agreement by the aggrieved party. In the event 
of a breach of this Agreement, in addition to such other rights as the 
aggrieved party may have hereunder, the aggrieved party may 
institute proceedings for damages for breach of contract. In any 
claim, action or civil proceeding wherein damages are sought for 
breach of this Agreement, City shall have the same rights and 

 
27 
  
liabilities as a private non-governmental party for any breach of this 
Agreement. 
(Emphasis added.) Section 10.4 of the Development Agreement provides: 
Except for an obligation to pay money to the other pursuant to this 
Agreement, neither City nor Developer shall be considered in breach 
of, or in default of, its obligations with respect to this Agreement, or 
any portion thereof, including redevelopment, or the beginning and 
completion of construction of the Improvements, in the event of an 
enforced delay in the performance of such obligations due to 
unforeseeable causes beyond its control and without its fault or 
negligence, including, but not restricted to, temporary injunctions, 
acts of God, acts of the public enemy, war, or terrorism, acts of 
government (provided City may not rely upon its own acts as reason 
for delay), acts of the other party, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine 
restrictions, strikes or other labor disruptions, freight embargoes, 
economic or financial market collapse causing a national loss of 
available financing upon commercially reasonable terms, and 
unusually severe weather or delays of subcontractors due to such 
causes; it being the purpose and intent of this provision that in the 
event of the occurrence of any such enforced delay, the time or times 
for performance of the obligations of City or of Developer, as the case 
may be, shall be extended for the period of the enforced delay: 
Provided, that the party seeking the benefit of the provisions of this 
article shall: i) within twenty (20) days after the beginning of any 
such enforced delay, have notified the other party thereof, in writing, 
and of the cause or causes thereof, and setting forth the anticipated 
extension required as a result of the enforced delay; and, ii) exercise 
reasonable diligence to mitigate the event and the impact thereof. 
Section 10.4 insulates either party from being found in default or breach 
of contract whenever one of the enumerated enforced delays occurs. To avail 
itself of this provision, a party needs only to inform the other, in writing, within 
twenty days, about the cause or causes of the enforced delay, and it must 
exercise reasonable diligence to mitigate the event and its impact.  
It is undisputed that the Developers failed to commence construction of 
the Tower or Theater by October 31, 2019. The City argues that this date having 
passed by June 24, 2020, the default was essentially incurable—there was no 
way for the Developers to go back and do something they had failed to do. 

 
28 
  
Alternatively, the City argues that once it had issued default notices and the cure 
period had fully elapsed, then the Developers had breached the contract. The 
City asserts that Section 10.4 does not apply to save the Developers from the 
breach or default because the original delay—that is, the failure to begin 
construction of the Tower or Theater on October 31, 2019—was solely 
attributable to the Developers’ own actions and occurred before the COVID-19 
pandemic began.  
But the City’s arguments depend on its own interpretation of the contract. 
The district court reached a different, more plausible interpretation based on the 
contract terms and the extrinsic evidence presented. The missed October 31, 
2019 deadline was not a trump card that the City had in its back pocket and 
that it could play at any time and declare, “Game over.” Rather, once the City 
issued the default notices, the Developers had forty-five days to cure (or 
potentially longer, if they commenced the cure promptly). But that time period 
was put on hold by the force majeure clause in 10.4. Indeed, it is undisputed 
that the City failed to issue default notices until after the Developers had already 
invoked the force majeure clause. Not only that, but the City also repeatedly 
reassured the Developers before then that it was “NOT” issuing notices of default. 
Indeed, Sanders testified at trial that no default existed until it was declared to 
establish a breach and that “the Developers were entitled to an opportunity to 
cure” after a missed deadline. The district court properly relied on the parties’ 
course of performance that demonstrated a notice of default and opportunity to 
cure was required before the Developers could be found in breach. See Pillsbury 
Co. v. Wells Dairy, Inc., 752 N.W.2d 430, 436 (Iowa 2008) (“Another relevant rule 
of 
contract 
interpretation 
requires 
that 
‘[w]herever 
reasonable, 
the 
manifestations of intention of the parties to a promise or agreement are 

 
29 
  
interpreted as consistent with each other and with any relevant course of 
performance . . . .’ ” (alteration in original) (quoting Restatement (Second) of 
Contracts § 202(5) (A.L.I. 1979))). 
We therefore affirm the district court’s determination that the City could 
not pursue remedies for breach of contract unless the Developers failed, after 
first receiving a notice of default, to take appropriate remedial action to cure the 
default. But once the Developers invoked Section 10.4, the clock stopped on their 
deadline to cure, and any notice of default could not trigger a breach. The City 
concedes that the COVID-19 pandemic was a force majeure within the meaning 
of the agreement. And the district court’s finding that the COVID-19 pandemic 
qualified as an enforced delay is well supported by the record. The district court 
could properly determine that it was the City, and not the Developers, who 
breached the Development Agreement. We affirm the district court’s 
determination that the City breached the Development Agreement. 
2. Is the City liable for tortious interference with the contract between the 
Developers and Bankers Trust? The Developers alleged that Sanders knew that, 
by issuing the default notices, he would undermine the Developers’ loan 
agreement with the Bank, souring the Bank on financing extensions or future 
lending. The City argues that the Developers failed to prove tortious interference. 
The district court found that the City had tortiously interfered with the 
Developers’ existing contract with the Bank by issuing the notice of default in 
the summer of 2020—the same conduct found to be a material breach of the 
Development Agreement.  
Generally, it is not “possible to tortiously interfere with a contract to which 
one is a party,” and we have “decline[d] to recognize a tortious interference claim” 
when “[n]o third parties were involved.” Klooster v. N. Iowa State Bank, 

 
30 
  
404 N.W.2d 564, 570 (Iowa 1987). “In such cases a tort remedy is not necessary 
as the plaintiff has an adequate remedy for breach of contract.” Baysden v. 
Hitchcock, 553 N.W.2d 901, 904 (Iowa Ct. App. 1996); see also Tyler v. Percell, 
506 N.W.2d 805, 808 (Iowa Ct. App. 1993) (“The rationale behind such a holding 
is where both parties are parties to the contract, it is a breach of the agreement 
and the proper remedy is a suit for breach of contract.”); Irons v. Cmty. State 
Bank, 461 N.W.2d 849, 858 (Iowa Ct. App. 1990) (holding that the “trial court 
erred by instructing the jury that a party may [tortiously] interfere [with] its own 
contract”); Klooster, 404 N.W.2d at 570 (noting the adequacy of contract remedy). 
We reiterate that “[t]his tort is not committed by parties to the contract; 
the tortfeasor must interfere with a contract between another and a third 
person.” Grahek v. Voluntary Hosp. Coop. Ass’n of Iowa, Inc., 473 N.W.2d 31, 35 
(Iowa 1991). Here, the Bank is the third party. But is more required to recover 
in tort than that the City breached its contract with the Developers? In Tyler v. 
Percell, the court of appeals reinstated a tortious interference claim between 
parties to a contract when the breaching defendant separately conspired with 
third parties to withhold rents from the plaintiff. 506 N.W.2d at 807, 808. But 
neither the Developers nor the district court cite a case where a tortious 
interference claim between contracting parties was upheld based on a breach of 
their contract alone, without additional improper actions to interfere with the 
separate contract with a third party. 
To recover for the tort of intentional interference with a contract, the 
Developers had the burden to prove: “(1) the existence of a contract with a third 
party, (2) the defendant knew about the contract, (3) the defendant intentionally 
and improperly interfered with the contract, (4) the interference caused the 
third-party not to perform or made performance more burdensome or expensive, 

 
31 
  
and (5) the plaintiff suffered damages.” Larew v. Hope L. Firm, P.L.C., 977 N.W.2d 
47, 63 (Iowa 2022). 
It is undisputed that the Developers had a contract with the Bank and that 
the City knew about that contract. The fighting issue is whether Sanders’s 
actions in issuing the notice of default constituted intentional and improper 
interference with the contract between the Developer and the Bank. We conclude 
that it did not.  
The Restatement (Third) of Torts, Liability for Economic Harm, provides 
guidance. Section 17 states:  
(1) A defendant is subject to liability for interference with 
contract if: 
(a) a valid contract existed between the plaintiff and a third 
party; 
(b) the defendant knew of the contract; 
(c) the defendant engaged in wrongful conduct as defined in 
Subsection (2); 
(d) the defendant intended to cause a breach of the contract 
or disruption of its performance; 
(e) the defendant’s wrongful conduct caused a breach of the 
contract or disruption of performance; and 
(f) the plaintiff suffered economic loss as a result. 
(2) Conduct is wrongful for purposes of this Section if: 
(a) the defendant acted for the purpose of appropriating the 
benefits of the plaintiff’s contract; 
(b) the defendant’s conduct constituted an independent and 
intentional legal wrong; or 
(c) the defendant engaged in the conduct for the sole purpose 
of causing harm to the plaintiff. 

 
32 
  
Restatement (Third) of Torts: Liab. Econ. Harm § 17, at 127 (A.L.I. 2020) 
(emphasis added). 
When considering subsection (2), we note that the Developers do not argue 
that the City acted with the intent to appropriate the Developers’ contractual 
advantage or for the sole purpose of harming the Developers’ lending agreement 
with the Bank. So, the City’s conduct—if it is to be the basis for liability—must 
constitute an independent and intentional legal wrong.  
Helpfully, Comment e provides guidance as to the meaning of independent 
wrongs, stating: “An independent wrong, for purposes of this Section, can be 
conduct regarded as culpable by the law of tort, by criminal law, by equity, or by 
regulation. It does not include an act of negligence or breach of contract.” Id. § 17 
cmt. e, at 130 (emphasis added). The problem, then, for the Developers is that 
they rely on the City’s breach of the Development Agreement as the act that 
interfered with their contract with the Bank. But the City’s breach of its contract 
with the Developers, without more, cannot support their separate tort claim for 
intentional interference with their contract with the Bank. See id.; see also 
Berry & Gould, P.A. v. Berry, 757 A.2d 108, 115 (Md. App. Ct. 2000) (“Pertinent 
to this case is the rule that breach of a contract between the plaintiff and the 
defendant is not a basis for the interference tort, if the interference is simply 
incidental to the breach.”).  
Here, any interference with the Developers’ contract with the Bank was 
merely incidental to the City’s breach of contract in issuing the notice of default 
during the pandemic. The Developers do not identify, and the district court did 
not find, any other actions by the City that interfered with the Developers’ 
contract with the Bank. The City acted to protect its own interests under the 
Development Agreement, not to maliciously interfere with the Developers’ 

 
33 
  
lending agreement with the Bank. Iowa law does not support a recovery in tort 
under these circumstances.  
A contrary holding allowing a tort remedy for a breach of contract would 
undermine the predictability and certainty that is vital to business law and 
freedom of contract. In our view, awarding potentially open-ended tort damages 
based on a breach of the parties’ contract is at odds with the contract law 
principle of “efficient breach.” As the Delaware Supreme Court explains: 
Efficient breach is a concept that recognizes that “properly 
calculated expectation damages increase economic efficiency by 
giving the other party an incentive to break the contract if, but only 
if, he gains enough from the breach that he can compensate the 
injured party for his losses and still retain some of the benefits from 
the breach.” 
Leaf Invenergy Co. v. Invenergy Renewables LLC, 210 A.3d 688, 703 (Del. 2019) 
(en banc) (quoting Bhole, Inc. v. Shore Invs., Inc., 67 A.3d 444, 453 n.39 
(Del. 2013)). “In other words, efficient breach is based on the idea that a party 
might find it economically worthwhile to breach a contract because that breach 
yields economic benefits that exceed the value of the damages it must pay to the 
non-breaching party.” Id. In a similar vein, the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Seventh Circuit noted that “[b]ecause, at least in theory, this kind of 
[efficient] breach makes society better off, the law does not treat it as disfavored.” 
Stop-N-Go of Madison, Inc. v. Uno-Ven Co., 184 F.3d 672, 680 (7th Cir. 1999) 
(citing, inter alia, E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts, § 12.8, at 194–95 (2d ed. 1990) 
(“Most courts have not infringed on the freedom to keep or break a contract 
traditionally afforded a party by the common law and endorsed by the notion of 
efficient breach.”)); see also NACCO Indus., Inc. v. Applica Inc., 997 A.2d 1, 35 
(Del. Ch. 2009) (“Delaware law generally elevates contract law over tort to allow 
parties to order their affairs and bargain for specific results . . . . A claim of 

 
34 
  
conspiracy to commit tortious interference against a party to the contract would 
undercut these principles and replace the predictability of the parties’ agreement 
with a far less certain, after-the-fact, judicially-fashioned tort remedy.” (citation 
omitted)).  
Applying efficient breach principles, the Delaware Supreme Court held 
that a landlord suing its tenant for tortious interference with third-party 
contracts must prove malice or bad faith. Bhole, 67 A.3d at 453. The court 
determined that “there can be no non-contractual liability . . . unless the plaintiff 
pleads and proves that the [defendant] sought not to achieve permissible 
financial goals but sought maliciously or in bad faith to injure plaintiff.” Id. 
(omission in original) (quoting Shearin v. E.F. Hutton Grp., Inc., 652 A.2d 578, 
591 (Del. Ch. 1994)). Here, the district court made no findings that the City acted 
maliciously or in bad faith when it issued the notice of default. 
We decline to graft tort remedies onto the Developers’ remedies for the 
City’s breach of contract. Contract law (including the recovery of foreseeable 
consequential damages) provides the Developers’ sole remedy here. We vacate 
the district court’s judgment that the City was liable for tortious interference 
with the Developers’ contract with the Bank. 
The district court’s monetary award remains unchanged, however, 
because the district court awarded precisely the same damages for the City’s 
breach of contract. Even if we were to affirm the judgment against the City for 
its tortious interference with the Developers’ contract with the Bank, the 
Developers are entitled to only one satisfaction of their damages and not a double 
recovery. “A successful plaintiff is entitled to one, but only one, full recovery, no 
matter how many theories support entitlement.” Clark-Peterson Co. v. Indep. Ins., 
514 N.W.2d 912, 915 (Iowa 1994). Indeed, the purpose of damages is to restore 

 
35 
  
an injured party to the position he occupied before the injury; we do not award 
duplicative damages. Team Cent., Inc. v. Teamco, Inc., 271 N.W.2d 914, 925 (Iowa 
1978) (en banc). We vacate the damages awarded for tortious interference but 
affirm the identical damages awarded for breach of contract. 
3. Does the discretionary function immunity in the Iowa Code § 670.4(1)(c) 
protect the City from the Developers’ tort claims? Because we vacate the award for 
tortious interference with contract, we do not reach the question of whether the 
discretionary function immunity in Iowa Code § 670.4(1)(c) (2020) applies here. 
4. Did the Development Agreement allow for damages outside of the special 
fund? The City contends that the district court erred by awarding damages 
outside of the so-called “special fund” established under Iowa Code § 403.19(2), 
a statute governing the division of revenue from tax-increment financing. The 
City relies on Section 9.8 of the Development Agreement, which provides in 
relevant part: 
A. The advances to be paid by the City on the Parking Grant, the 
South Building Grant, the Residential Grant, and the Parking 
Shortfall Loan, and all deposits to the Sinking Fund (collectively the 
“Deferred Grants”) shall be paid by City solely from the special fund 
financed by the division of revenue pursuant to Iowa Code 
§ 403.19(2) from taxes levied on the Metro Center Urban Renewal 
Project Area. The obligations of City under this Agreement shall not 
constitute a general obligation of the City. 
(Emphasis added.) The City interprets this section as a limitation on damages 
for breach of contract. We disagree. Section 9.8, by its terms, only limits 
payments from the economic development fund to “advances to be paid by the 
City.” The Developers sued the City for breach of contract, not to compel 
“payment of the City’s economic assistance commitments.” The district court 
correctly found the following, 
[Section 9.8], by its plain language, indicates that the funding the 
City promised to provide under the development agreement comes 

 
36 
  
from the taxes levied on the Metro Center Urban Renewal Project 
Area. This means the parties agreed that if the tax revenue was not 
sufficient to fund the Deferred Grants the City was not obligated to 
make payments from its general fund to the Deferred Grants. It did 
not limit the City’s payment of damages for a breach of the 
development agreement. 
We agree. Section 9.8 nowhere mentions the words “damages” or “breach.” The 
City is a sophisticated party; it could have included language expressly limiting 
recoverable damages for breach of the Development Agreement. It did not. We 
enforce the unambiguous contract language as written. Iowa Fuel & Mins., Inc. v. 
Iowa State Bd. of Regents, 471 N.W.2d 859, 862–63 (Iowa 1991) (“When a 
contract is not ambiguous, it will be enforced as written . . . .”). We decline to 
read into Section 9.8 any limitation on the City’s liability for breach of contract.  
The district court correctly relied on Section 10.1(C), which the court 
quoted and accurately found “specifically provides . . . that ‘[i]n any claim, action 
or civil proceeding wherein damages are sought for breach of this Agreement, 
City shall have the same rights and liabilities as a private non-governmental 
party.’ ” (Alteration in original.) Section 10.1(C) is the more specific provision and 
controls over any conflicting general language. See Iowa Code § 4.7. 
Section 10.1(C) specifically addresses damages for breach of the Development 
Agreement and provides that the City would be liable for such a breach “as a 
private non-governmental party.” Private parties are not shielded from liability 
under the statute governing tax-increment financing. Reading the Development 
Agreement as a whole, as we must, we agree with the district court that no 
provision of the contract limits “any damage a court may award against the City 
for a breach of the development agreement.” 

 
37 
  
5. Should the Developers retain title to the property? The City contends that 
Section 10.2(C) of the Development Agreement permits the City to recover title 
to the tower and theater parcels. Section 10.2(C) begins:  
C. Failure to Timely Close on financing for both the South 
Building and the Residential Building. If the owners of the South 
Parcel and Residential Parcel are both determined to be in breach of 
their individual obligation to cause construction of their respective 
Buildings to be timely commenced pursuant to Section 6.2, then as 
an alternative to the remedies set forth in paragraphs D and E below, 
City may elect, in its sole discretion, to acquire the Property and all 
improvements 
thereon 
upon 
the 
following 
terms 
and 
conditions: . . . . 
In our view, the district court’s findings preclude the City’s request for 
return of those properties under the contract. The district court found the City 
materially breached the Development Agreement. The district court further 
found the following, 
[T]he Developers did not breach the agreement as provided in 
section 10.2(D)(1). Consequently, the City is not entitled to the remedy 
provided under that section which is the return of the title to the theater 
parcel by special warranty deed. The same result would occur under 
section 10.2(E)(1) as it pertains to the title to the tower parcel. Because the 
court determined that the Developers did not breach the development 
agreement the City’s claim is not supported by any provision of the 
development agreement. There is no basis for the court to order a return 
of the titles to these parcels to the City.  
The district court’s findings are supported by substantial evidence, and 
the court correctly construed the contract to deny transfer of title to the City. We 
affirm its ruling that leaves title to the tower and theater parcels with Tower LLC 
and Court LLC, respectively. 
6. The City’s challenge to the damages awarded for breach of contract. The 
district court, after an extensive review of the Developers’ evidence including the 
testimony of their expert, found that the Developers had proven damages of 
$4,353,677 for the City’s breach of contract. The district court found that 

 
38 
  
Parking LLC would have received that amount had it been allowed to complete 
the garage shortly after the City’s breach.  
Specifically, the district court found that the Developers were within 
approximately four months of completing the garage when the Bank filed its 
foreclosure action in response to the City’s June 2020 notice of default (the 
breach). The breach and resulting foreclosure by the Bank prevented the 
Developers from completing the garage and thereby earning the development fee 
and related savings over the stipulated price. The foreclosure also triggered 
higher default interest costs. The district court’s factual findings on the resulting 
damages are supported by substantial evidence.  
“[A]s a general matter, ‘[e]very breach of contract gives the injured party a 
right to damages against the party in breach.’ ” UE Loc. 893/IUP, 997 N.W.2d 
at 11 (second alteration in original) (quoting Restatement (Second) of Contracts 
§ 346 cmt. a, at 110 (A.L.I. 1981)). “In particular, ‘when a contract has been 
breached the nonbreaching party is generally entitled to’ damages that will place 
that party ‘in as good a position as he or she would have occupied had the 
contract been performed.’ ” Id. at 11–12 (quoting Midland Mut. Life Ins. v. Mercy 
Clinics, Inc., 579 N.W.2d 823, 831 (Iowa 1998)). “This is sometimes called ‘benefit 
of the bargain’ damages.” Id. at 12 (quoting Midland Mut. Life Ins., 579 N.W.2d 
at 831). Based on the district court’s factual findings, we affirm its award of 
benefit of the bargain (expectancy) damages of $4,353,677. 
B. The Developers’ Cross-Appeal. The Developers challenge the district 
court’s rejection of their claims for additional damages. At trial the Developers 
divided their alleged damages into four overarching categories and numerous 
subcategories. They are as follows:  
• Category (1): Garage Completion Damages, and its subcategories:  

 
39 
  
o (1-A) Development fee on the garage. 
o (1-B) Savings on the garage.  
o (1-C) Interest savings on the garage.  
o (1-D) Jump ramp insurance claim on the garage.  
In the City’s appeal, as noted above, we affirm the award to the Developers of 
$4,353,677 in Category (1) across subcategories (1-A), (1-B), and (1-C). But the 
district court rejected the Developers’ claims for additional damages under (1-D) 
as well as for the following categories: 
• Category (2): Lost Profits from Garage Operation and Ownership, and 
its subcategories:  
o (2-A) Net present value of residual equity value of garage.  
o (2-B) Net present value of garage management fee. 
o (2-C)2 Net present value of environmental expenses incentive 
payment.  
o (2-D) Market value of restaurant and retail space in garage (sales 
approach).  
• Category (3): Either:  
o (I) Lost Development Opportunity for the Tower, which includes 
reconciled profit calculation on residential development equity 
investment and reconciled profit calculation on hotel development 
equity investment; or  
o (II) Alternative Claims—Losses Suffered Regardless of Developers’ 
Equity Interest in Tower, which consists of four subcategories:  
▪ (3-A) Architecture on tower paid by the Developers. 
 
2The Developers do not appeal the district court’s denial of subcategory (2-C) damages.  

 
40 
  
▪ (3-B) Predevelopment expenses on Tower paid by the Developers. 
▪ (3-C) Tower hard costs funded by the Developer in the Garage 
(excluding restaurant). 
▪ (3-D) Development fee on the Tower.  
• Category (4): Lost Development Opportunity for the Theater Building, 
and its subcategories: 
o (4-A) Architecture on the Theater paid by the Developers. 
o (4-B) Predevelopment expenses on the Theater paid by the 
Developers. 
o (4-C) Theater hard costs funded by the Developers in the Garage. 
o (4-D) Development fee on the Theater. 
In addition to these primary damages, the Developers sought two categories of 
ancillary damages: foreclosure defense costs and a so-called “tax gross-up.” 
The district court determined, however, that the Developers failed to prove 
any additional damages and that they were not entitled to foreclosure defense 
costs or a tax gross-up. We agree. 
We begin our review of the Developers’ cross-appeal by reiterating basic 
principles:  
A plaintiff is required to establish a claim of damages with some 
reasonable certainty, showing a rational basis for ascertaining their 
amount. On the other hand a plaintiff is not required to show the 
amount with the same degree of certitude required for a showing of 
the fact they were sustained.  
Conley v. Warne, 236 N.W.2d 682, 687 (Iowa 1975). “If it is speculative and 
uncertain whether damages have been sustained, recovery is denied. If the 
uncertainty lies only in the amount of damages, recovery may be had if there is 
proof of a reasonable basis from which the amount can be inferred or 
approximated.” Id. at 687–88 (quoting Northrup v. Miles Homes, Inc. of Iowa, 

 
41 
  
204 N.W.2d 850, 857 (Iowa 1973)); accord Conrad v. Dorweiler, 189 N.W.2d 537, 
540 (Iowa 1971).  
To recover for loss of profits, the claimant must meet three requirements: 
(1) the damages must have been within the contemplation of the parties at the 
time the contract was made, (2) the damages must be the natural and direct 
result of the breach, and (3) the damages must be established with reasonable 
certainty—they cannot be conjectural or speculative. See Dopheide v. 
Schoeppner, 163 N.W.2d 360, 367 (Iowa 1968); see also Harsha v. State Sav. 
Bank, 346 N.W.2d 791, 797 (Iowa 1984) (applying the lost profits analysis).  
When evaluating a damage award for lost profits, our caselaw 
distinguishes between two types of businesses. For established businesses, the 
above-stated rule applies, and the district court may use the business’s historical 
profits as a baseline for determining damages. For new businesses, though, the 
analysis is more complicated. We apply Iowa’s “new business rule.” That rule is 
predicated on the idea that the profits for an untested business venture are 
necessarily more speculative than those of a going concern. We have long 
recognized the following: 
Expected profits from a new commercial enterprise [are] too remote 
and speculative to warrant judgment for their loss because there are 
no available data of past business from which the fact of anticipated 
profits could have been established. But anticipated profits may be 
recovered, if established with reasonable certainty, as damages for 
the interruption of the use of an established business in actual 
operation. 
City of Corning v. Iowa-Neb. Light & Power Co., 282 N.W. 791, 796 (Iowa 1938). 
“The new business rule is not absolute. If factual data are presented which 
furnish a basis for compilation of probable loss of profits, evidence of future 
profits should be admitted and its weight, if any, should be left to the jury.” 
Harsha, 346 N.W.2d at 798. So, where there are projections of profitability based 

 
42 
  
on expert experience in the industry and where the business proprietors have 
relevant experience and are willing to exert the effort necessary to bring the 
business to success, we have allowed an award of damages. See id. at 798–99. 
With these luminaries marking our path, we turn to the Developers’ 
individual claims. 
1. Should the Developers have received damages for subcategory (1-D) the 
jump ramp insurance claim on the garage? The Developers argue that the district 
court should have awarded damages for their nascent claim against their 
architect. According to the Developers, the design firm that worked on the 
parking garage made numerous errors in designing the ramps that connect the 
levels in the parking garage. These errors allegedly damaged the Developers in 
an amount exceeding $1.3 million. The Developers claim they would have sued 
the design firm, but when the City purchased the garage, it abandoned the claim. 
Accordingly, the Developers seek damages for the potential damages they would 
have acquired from a lawsuit against their design firm.  
The district court rejected the Developers’ claim. It found that the 
Developers failed to prove that they would have succeeded in obtaining an 
insurance payout or other settlement from the design firm. The district court 
noted that the receiver for the garage property sent the design firm a demand 
letter, to which the firm never responded. The Developers had the burden to 
prove their “case within a case” against the design firm. The district court found 
that the potential recovery against the design firm was too speculative to support 
a damage award against the City. That finding is supported by substantial 
evidence, so we affirm the judgment on that issue.  
2. Should the Developers have received damages for long-term ownership 
and operation of the parking garage? The Developers argue that the district court 

 
43 
  
erred when it refused to award damages for the long-term operation of the 
parking garage. Essentially, under subcategory (2-A), they requested the net 
present value of the cash flow from the operation of the parking garage, a sum 
of $4,357,750. Under subcategory (2-B), they requested the net present value of 
the management fee stipulated in the Development Agreement, a sum of 
$3,289,859. And, under subcategory (2-D), they requested the lost rental value 
of the retail and restaurant spaces built into the parking garage, a sum of 
$3,381,702. 
The district court denied the Developer recovery on these damages because 
the claims lacked historical support—there was not sufficient data from the 
parking garage itself or from similarly situated businesses to prove beyond 
conjecture the amount of claimed damages.  
The district court’s findings are supported by substantial evidence. When 
a plaintiff claims damages for lost profits, the damages—not merely the fact of 
damages but also the amount—must be proven with reasonable certainty. 
Dopheide, 163 N.W.2d at 367. Here, all three subcategories (2-A, -B, and -D) 
were contingent upon unrealized future events.  
Subcategory (2-A) represents the lost profits that the Developers expected 
to earn from owning and operating the garage. But, as the district court noted, 
this revenue stream depended on several speculative contingencies. First, the 
Developers assumed that the garage would have a useful life of 100 years. 
Second, their revenue projections relied on the existence of the Tower and the 
Theater, as well as a stream of revenue from parking for the Des Moines Farmers 
Market. Finally, there was no testimony that the numbers provided were in any 
way related to past operational income of similarly situated parking garages. For 
a new and unique business, especially one as integrated as the development 

 
44 
  
promised to be, it suffices to say that the district court’s finding that the damages 
in subcategory (2-A) were too speculative is well supported by the record. 
As for subcategory (2-B), the Developers claim that they are entitled to 
recover a garage management fee that was contemplated in the Development 
Agreement. But, as the district court aptly noted, the garage management was 
anchored to a percentage of the projected garage revenue and expenses. Again, 
the Developers failed to prove with reasonable certainty the expected revenue 
from the garage; consequently, they cannot prove with reasonable certainty the 
amount of the management fee. The district court’s refusal to award damages 
under subcategory (2-B) is supported by substantial evidence. 
Subcategory (2-D) comprises damages for the lost market value of the 
restaurant and retail space in the garage. The district court found that the 
Developers’ damages calculations were based on speculation, lacking any 
historical data. We agree. The Developers were to establish a new business with 
a unique structure of interlacing buildings and firms; their revenue projections 
lacked comparators or a historical foundation. The district court found that the 
damages were not ascertainable with reasonable certainty. That finding is 
supported by substantial evidence. 
Perceiving no error in the district court’s ruling, we conclude that the 
Developers were not entitled to any of the damages enumerated under 
subcategories (2-A, -B, or -D).  
3. Should the Developers have received reliance damages for expenses 
already incurred for the development of the Tower and the Theater? The 
Developers argue the district court should have awarded them reliance damages 
for expenses incurred toward the construction of the Tower and Theater. 

 
45 
  
Reliance damages are intended to put the nonbreaching party in the same 
position it would have occupied had it never formed the contract. Scott v. Grinnell 
Mut. Reins., 653 N.W.2d 556, 562 (Iowa 2002). To recover for reliance damages, 
the nonbreaching party must prove actual expenditures made or forbearance of 
other opportunities prior to the repudiation of the contract. Id. But the plaintiffs’ 
recovery for reliance damages can never exceed the contract price. Id. 
Here, the Developers argue that they took certain actions in reliance on 
the Development Agreement. Specifically, they spent money on architectural 
drawings and pre-development expenses for the Tower and Theater and on 
special features to integrate the parking garage with the Tower and Theater. For 
the tower, these expenses comprised subcategories (3-A, -B, and -C), summing 
to 
$8,063,027; 
and, 
for 
the 
Theater, 
these 
expenses 
comprised 
subcategories (4-A, -B, and -C), summing to $528,884.  
The district court found that the Developers were not entitled to recover 
these damages because the damages were paid entirely by the construction loan, 
meaning that, when the City purchased the garage from the Bank, it paid off the 
construction loan. In short, the Developers suffered no actual out-of-pocket 
reliance damages. 
The Developers concede that they are not out of pocket for those 
expenditures, but they argue that they were entitled to the difference between 
the stipulated cost for the garage and the actual lower cost, or savings, which 
the district court correctly awarded as expectancy damages. So, by including 
Tower and Theater expenses in the construction loan, the “savings” to be 
awarded the Developers fell by the same amount. The City does not challenge 
the math, or the amount of the actual expenditures for the Tower and Theater. 
Rather, the City argues that the Developers are not entitled to recover for 

 
46 
  
amounts they never paid, because unlike the nearly completed garage, the 
Developers never showed they would have built the Tower or Theater but for the 
City’s breach.  
The City in effect paid for the Tower and Theater expenses once it paid off 
the construction loan that funded those expenses. In our view, the district court 
was not required to force the City to pay twice for the same expenses. And here, 
the district court allowed the Developers to retain title to the Tower and Theater 
parcels without paying for them. The Developers would get a windfall if the 
district court awarded reliance damages for expenses the Developers never 
paid—i.e., expenses for the land on which the Tower and Theater were to sit, 
land for projects the Developers were unlikely to complete even without the City’s 
breach and that the Developers still own and that they acquired at no cost. 
The district court found that the ultimate completion and successful 
operation of the Tower and Theater was too speculative to support awarding 
additional damages to the Developers. We agree. The district court correctly 
treated expenditures for the nearly completed garage differently than costs 
incurred by other parties on the Tower and Theater projects where the 
Developers had not yet broken ground.  
The district court also found that the Developers retained ownership of the 
architectural drawings for the Tower and Theater. Those drawings have no value 
to the City. So an additional award cannot be supported under a restitution 
theory. We ordinarily do not award both expectancy and reliance or restitution 
damages for the same breach of contract. See, e.g., Mobley v. Boyt Farms Co., 
126 N.W.2d 280, 283–84 (Iowa 1964). See generally Restatement (Second) of 
Contracts § 344, at 102–03 (A.L.I. 1981) (contrasting purposes of expectancy, 
reliance, and restitution theories). The district court correctly declined to mix 

 
47 
  
and match reliance and expectancy damages because those remedies are 
mutually exclusive. The reliance remedy restores the nonbreaching party to “as 
good a position as he would have been in had the contract not been made.” 
Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 344(b), at 102 (A.L.I. 1981). By contrast, 
expectancy damages provide the nonbreaching party with “the benefit of his 
bargain by being put in as good a position as he would have been in had the 
contract been performed.” Id. § 344(a), at 102. The Developers can’t have it both 
ways. 
Under the election of remedies doctrine, the injured party “may treat 
the contract as void and seek the damages [known as ‘reliance 
damages’] that will restore him to the position he was in immediately 
prior to entering the contract,” or, alternatively, “he may elect to 
affirm the contract, insist upon the benefit of his bargain, and seek 
the damages [called ‘expectation damages’] that would place him in 
the position he would have been in had the contract been completely 
performed.” Significantly, these two distinct remedies are mutually 
exclusive and, as such, may not both be recovered by the injured 
party. 
Tampa Pipeline Transp. Co. v. Chase Manhattan Serv. Corp., 928 F. Supp. 1568, 
1584 (M.D. Fla. 1995) (alterations in original) (quoting Rector v. Larson’s Marine, 
Inc., 479 So. 2d 783, 785 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1985)). Thus, the Developers cannot 
recover “for both [their] lost profits and [their] expenditures made in reliance 
upon the contract.” Resorts Int’l, Inc. v. Charter Air Ctr., Inc., 503 So. 2d 1293, 
1296 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1987). 
The district court’s factual findings are supported by substantial evidence, 
and we discern no legal error. We affirm the district court’s judgment declining 
to award damages for subcategories (3-A, B, and C) and (4-A, B, and C). 

 
48 
  
4. Should the Developers have received a “tax gross-up”? The Developers 
argue that they are entitled to a “tax gross-up” on the damages they received for 
the City’s breach of contract. A tax gross-up is an equalization payment that 
negates the tax burden applicable to an award of money damages. Because 
damages awarded after a lawsuit are often taxable, sometimes a plaintiff stands 
to lose in taxes some of the compensation to which he would otherwise be 
entitled. This is especially true in cases where, but for the defendant’s breach of 
contract, the plaintiff would have received a nontaxed asset. Some courts avoid 
this eventuality by awarding additional monies to zero out the plaintiff’s tax 
burden. See Anchor Sav. Bank, FSB v. United States, 123 Fed. Cl. 180, 183 
(2015). The court calculates the amount of the tax gross-up by projecting the 
plaintiff’s tax liability for the portion of the award that is subject to gross-up. Id. 
The plaintiff’s tax rate must be reasonably certain. Id. As the United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote long ago: 
To calculate such an item of damages permits of wide speculation. 
If such damages are awarded, the amount of tax differential will 
depend on the method by which appellee has kept his books—cash 
or accrual basis. Damages would vary in each instance. Another 
consideration would be the taxpayer’s financial position and other 
earnings of the year which would enter into the calculations so that 
it would be highly speculative to find the amount of the damages 
due to appellee’s breach of contract. 
Paris v. Remington Rand, Inc., 101 F.2d 64, 68 (2d Cir. 1939). Where, as here, 
there is no evidence indicating against whom the taxes will be levied, or any 
historical data indicating how the plaintiff-entity has been taxed, the plaintiff 
fails to show with reasonable certainty the tax rate, and, therefore, the tax gross-
up claim fails for want of proof.  
Iowa courts routinely consider the tax consequences of property divisions 
in marital dissolutions. See Iowa Code § 598.21(5)(j). The Developers 

 
49 
  
acknowledge that our court has never upheld or otherwise addressed the 
propriety of a tax gross-up award in commercial business litigation. In Guge v. 
Kassel Enterprises, Inc., we recently declined to award damages for anticipated 
future capital gains taxes as too speculative. 962 N.W.2d 764, 773 (Iowa 2021). 
The Developers’ tax gross-up claim meets the same fate. 
The Developers argue that, had the contract been fulfilled, they would have 
received real estate instead of money. That real estate would have been taxed 
differently from the lump sum payment that they received as damages. Therefore, 
to make them whole, the court should have increased the monetary award to 
zero out the future taxes. But the district court found that the amount of the tax 
gross-up was too speculative. Parking LLC would receive the damages award. As 
an LLC, it can choose to be taxed either as a corporation or as a partnership, 
and that election would change who was taxed (either Justin and Sean 
Mandelbaum or Parking LLC) and how they would be taxed (as a pass-through, 
if a partnership, or as an entity, if a corporation). The Developers failed to offer 
into evidence any tax returns for the individuals or entities. The district court 
found the Developers failed to prove their entitlement to a tax gross-up and 
denied recovery on that claim based on insufficient evidence. The district court’s 
findings are supported by substantial evidence, and we affirm.  
5. Should the Developers have been awarded damages for foreclosure 
defense costs? Finally, the Developers argue that the district court should have 
awarded them damages for the money they spent in defending against Bankers 
Trust’s foreclosure action. According to the Developers, if the City had not 
breached the Development Agreement, then they, the Developers, would not have 
incurred legal fees to defend against the Bank’s foreclosure action. Therefore, the 

 
50 
  
Developers conclude, the district court should have reimbursed them for the 
amounts they spent on defending against the Bank’s claims. 
The Developers had the burden to prove their entitlement to attorney fees 
and the amount thereof. Lynch v. City of Des Moines, 464 N.W.2d 236, 238 (Iowa 
1990) (en banc). “Iowa follows the American rule: ‘the losing litigant does not 
normally pay the victor’s attorney’s fees.’ ” NCJC, Inc. v. WMG, L.C., 960 N.W.2d 
58, 62 (Iowa 2021) (quoting In re Guardianship & Conservatorship of Radda v. 
Wash. State Bank, 955 N.W.2d 203, 214 (Iowa 2021)). A party may obtain 
attorney fees incurred in defending a “third-party suit” when the suit is “brought 
about or caused by either the tortious conduct or breach of contract” of the 
defendant. N.H. Ins. v. Christy, 200 N.W.2d 834, 840 (Iowa 1972); Turner v. Zip 
Motors, 65 N.W.2d 427, 432 (Iowa 1954). But the Developers are not entitled to 
recover fees incurred litigating against the City. Dier v. Peters, 815 N.W.2d 1, 10 
(Iowa 2012). The district court did not allow the Developers to make an end run 
around the American rule by seeking fees through their third-party litigation 
with the Bank. 
The district court determined that the Developers failed to prove that the 
amount claimed for fees ($138,629) was spent on foreclosure defense rather than 
on their litigation with the City. Notably, the Developers’ appellate briefing points 
to no fee affidavit or itemized billing statement that properly segregated their fees 
incurred exclusively on litigating the foreclosure action against the Bank. “[T]o 
ensure that all necessary data is before the court, attorneys are generally 
required to submit detailed affidavits which itemize their fee claims.” Boyle v. 
Alum-Line, Inc., 773 N.W.2d 829, 832 (Iowa 2009) (per curiam) (alteration in 
original) (quoting Grunin v. Int’l House of Pancakes, 513 F.2d 114, 127 (8th Cir. 
1975)). The district court found the following: 

 
51 
  
The development agreement does not provide attorney fees for the 
prevailing party. While The Developers assert that these expenses 
were for the foreclosure proceedings, they do not delineate the 
services provided by their counsel. The foreclosure action was filed 
on September 14, 2020, by Banker’s Trust. On September 23, 2020, 
the Developers filed their cross-petition against the City for the 
claims litigated in this matter and the subject of the trial. The 
Developers began litigating these claims against the City 
immediately upon being served with the foreclosure petition. The 
court finds the Developers have failed to establish the amount 
claimed was solely for the defense of the foreclosure action since that 
defense entailed the immediate filing of a cross petition against the 
City on the issues presently before the court. 
The district court’s factual findings are supported by substantial evidence. 
We are reviewing the district court’s denial of fees for abuse of discretion, and 
we presume the district court acted within its discretion unless the Developers 
show otherwise. Lee, 906 N.W.2d at 194. The Developers made no such showing. 
We affirm the district court ruling denying the Developers’ request for foreclosure 
defense fees. 
IV. Disposition. 
For those reasons, we affirm the district court judgment except for the 
award for tortious interference with an existing contract.  
Appeal Affirmed in Part and Reversed in Part; Cross-Appeal Affirmed. 
All justices concur except McDermott, J., who takes no part. 
