IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF IOWA 
 
No. 23-1250 
Filed January 9, 2025 
 
 
AESTHETIC ELEMENTS, INC., 
 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 
 
vs. 
 
MEERA ENTERPRISE, LLC, 
 
Defendant-Appellant. 
________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Appeal from the Iowa District Court for Linn County, David M. Cox, Judge. 
 
 
A defendant appeals a jury verdict awarding liquidated damages to the 
plaintiff on its breach-of-contract claim.  AFFIRMED. 
 
 
Jodie C. McDougal, Brandon R. Underwood, and Sarah B. Golwitzer of 
Fredrikson & Byron, P.A., Des Moines, for appellant. 
 
Ryan J. Coufal and Gretchen L. McGill (Pro Hac Vice) of Dvorak Law Group, 
LLC, Omaha, Nebraska, for appellee. 
 
 
Heard by Greer, P.J., and Schumacher and Badding, JJ.

 
2
BADDING, Judge. 
 
In the aftermath of the August 2020 derecho that tore through Iowa, Meera 
Enterprise, LLC hired Aesthetic Elements, Inc. to evaluate its property damage and 
submit a proposed scope of work to Meera’s insurer.  The parties dispute whether 
they also agreed that Aesthetic Elements would perform the approved repairs.  
When Meera retained a different contractor, Aesthetic Elements sued for breach.  
A jury found in Aesthetic Elements’ favor and awarded the company liquidated 
damages.  Meera appeals, challenging (1) whether there was an enforceable 
contract; (2) the enforceability of a liquidated damages provision in that contract; 
(3) the admission of lost-profits testimony from the owner of Aesthetic Elements; 
and (4) the court’s refusal to submit a spoliation instruction to the jury.  We affirm. 
I. 
Background Facts and Proceedings 
 
Meera Enterprise, LLC operates a hotel in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  On August 
10, 2020, a powerful windstorm carved a path of destruction through Cedar Rapids 
and the surrounding area.  Among the affected properties was Meera’s hotel.  
Meera promptly opened a claim with its insurer, West Bend Mutual Insurance 
Company.  It then turned to coordinating repairs.  
 
On August 13, Meera’s owners—Dheeraj Julka and Rajinder Singh—
arranged a meeting with Aesthetic Elements, Inc., a contractor specializing in 
“insurance restoration” projects.  Julka and Aesthetic Elements were working 
together on a hail damage claim for another hotel owned by one of Julka’s other 
entities.  During that meeting, representatives for Meera and Aesthetic Elements 
executed a one-page, standardized “Service Agreement” prepared by Aesthetic 
Elements.   

 
3
 
Under the service agreement, Meera retained Aesthetic Elements “as 
general contractor of record for the purpose of inspecting, evaluating and creating 
an estimate for the scope of work necessary to repair or replace the damage” to 
Meera’s hotel.  The service agreement also provided:    
If [Meera’s] insurance company (the “Insurer”) approves a claim for 
the Work (the “Claim”), [Meera] acknowledges and agrees that 
[Meera] shall promptly enter into a Construction Agreement with 
[Aesthetic Elements] to set forth the terms and conditions upon which 
[Aesthetic Elements] shall perform the Work.  The cost of the Work 
shall be equal to the amount of the replacement cost value 
authorized by the Insurer (including all overhead and profit), plus the 
insurance deductible which shall be paid by [Meera] to [Aesthetic 
Elements] (the “Agreed Price”). 
If Meera failed to enter a construction agreement or authorize repairs following 
approval of the claim, the service agreement required Meera to pay Aesthetic 
Elements “twenty percent . . . of the replacement cost value of the Claim.”   
 
According to Aesthetic Elements, these terms were designed to facilitate an 
efficient relationship between contractor, customer, and insurer.  Project manager 
Cody Langan testified that preparing an estimate and negotiating the scope of work 
is “50 percent” of an insurance restoration project.  The scope of work, according 
to Langan, sets out “what needs to be done . . . to put the property back to its pre-
loss condition while maintaining current warranties, building code, [and] 
manufacturer specifications.”  Langan testified that the structure of the service 
agreement gave Aesthetic Elements flexibility to negotiate necessary repairs while 
capping Meera’s out-of-pocket costs at the price of its deductible.  Julka testified 
that, based on his review of the service agreement, he understood Meera was 
hiring Aesthetic Elements to “fix the roof” on its hotel.   

 
4
  
Immediately after the parties signed their service agreement, Aesthetic 
Elements got to work evaluating the damage to the hotel.  Workers spent multiple 
days inspecting the roof membrane and conducting temporary repairs.  On 
September 4, Aesthetic Elements submitted an eighty-three-page inspection 
report to West Bend comprised of pictures that Langan took the month before.  
Although Langan began preparing a scope of work around the same time, he did 
not complete it until October 15.   
 
Meanwhile, Meera was talking to another contractor—North-West Roofing.  
A lead generator from North-West had contacted Meera after the derecho and 
arranged a meeting between Meera and one of North-West’s project managers.  
On September 5, North-West started a scope of work for Meera, which it 
completed five days later.  The scope of work was revised later in September as 
North-West communicated with Meera’s claims representative at West Bend.  
During this same time, Langan was also communicating with the claims 
representative, emailing him on September 14 “to see where we are at with this 
claim?”  The representative responded, “Cody[,] I know we . . . emailed back and 
forth before and I know you’re a contractor.  What company are you with?”  Langan 
answered, “I am with Aesthetic Elements, Inc.  [W]e have been contracted by the 
insured to complete their repairs.  I will also re[-]attach a copy of our contract.”   
 
On October 6, Meera signed an agreement with North-West to begin repairs 
on the hotel.  Aesthetic Elements was unaware.  It proceeded to submit its 
completed scope of work to a public adjuster identified by Julka the day before the 
contract with North-West was signed.  Langan testified that once a public adjuster 
is involved, the insurance company and contractor cannot communicate: “all 

 
5
correspondence from a contractor goes through that public adjuster.”  Langan 
testified that he did not learn about North-West’s involvement until sometime in 
November, when his brother and owner of Aesthetics Elements, Steven Langan, 
saw people at work on the roof of the hotel.   
 
West Bend ultimately approved a claim for $461,645 in wind damage to 
Meera’s property.  Repairs were completed by North-West.1  Meera never signed 
a construction agreement with Aesthetic Elements, and Aesthetic Elements was 
never paid.  In November 2021, Aesthetic Elements sued for liquidated damages, 
alleging Meera violated the terms of the service agreement by “failing to allow 
Aesthetic Elements to perform any and all work to the [p]roperty as approved and 
agreed to by West Bend.”  Aesthetic Elements also asserted a claim for unjust 
enrichment.   
 
Meera sought summary judgment, arguing, among other things, that the 
service agreement was not supported by consideration and was an unenforceable 
“agreement to agree.”  Meera also challenged the liquidated damages provision 
as an invalid penalty.  The district court denied the motion.  Following a four-day 
trial, the jury returned special verdicts finding the parties entered a valid contract; 
Meera breached the contract; and Meera failed to prove its affirmative defenses, 
including prior material breach.  It awarded Aesthetic Elements $93,329 in 
liquidated damages, leaving a line for “Anticipated or Actual Damage” blank.  The 
 
1 Julka testified that Meera paid North-West $195,000 to repair the “main roof” at 
the hotel.  Meera spent some of the remaining insurance money to make other 
repairs and pay off a loan on the hotel. 

 
6
jury also awarded damages for unjust enrichment, although the parties agreed that 
Aesthetic Elements’ success on its contract claim precluded recovery in equity.   
 
Meera moved for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, but the district court 
found substantial evidence supported the jury’s findings.  This appeal followed. 
II. 
Standards of Review 
 
Denial of a motion for directed verdict is reviewed for correction of errors at 
law.  Royal Indem. Co. v. Factory Mut. Ins., 786 N.W.2d 839, 846 (Iowa 2010).  
Exclusion of a requested jury instruction is also reviewed for correction of errors at 
law, Lynch v. Saddler, 656 N.W.2d 104, 107 (Iowa 2003), while evidentiary rulings 
are reviewed for abuse of discretion.  Konchar v. Pins, 989 N.W.2d 150, 162 (Iowa 
2023). 
III. 
Analysis 
A. 
Preservation of Error 
 
Meera frames several of its arguments as appealing the denial of its motion 
for summary judgment.  Aesthetic Elements contends the court lacks jurisdiction 
to review that interlocutory order.  “An order overruling a motion for summary 
judgment is a nonreviewable order when the district court finds a genuine issue of 
material fact exists and the case proceeds to final trial.”  Estes v. Progressive 
Classic Ins., 809 N.W.2d 111, 114 (Iowa 2012).  Yet issues raised in an 
unsuccessful motion for summary judgment may still be reviewed on appeal if they 
are renewed in a motion for directed verdict and adjudicated on the trial evidence.  
Jones v. Glenwood Golf Corp., 956 N.W.2d 138, 143 (Iowa 2021); accord Halbur 
v. Larson, ____ N.W.3d ____, ____, 2024 WL 4996599, at *5 (Iowa 2024).   

 
7
 
At the close of Aesthetic Elements’ case, Meera moved for a directed 
verdict, arguing that it was entitled to judgment as a matter of law on several 
grounds it asserted at summary judgment and presented again on appeal—
including that “an agreement to agree [at] some point in the future is not a contract.”  
The district court denied the motion, concluding Aesthetic Elements had offered 
sufficient evidence for a jury to find “a contract for a certain agreed price” with a 
“certain scope of work.”   Meera unsuccessfully renewed its arguments in a motion 
at the close of all evidence and in a post-trial motion for judgment notwithstanding 
the verdict.  By reviving its summary judgment arguments through motions at trial, 
Meera preserved them for appellate review on the record made at trial. 
 
B. 
Enforceability of the Service Agreement 
 
Meera attacks the enforceability of the service agreement on several fronts, 
contending that it is an unenforceable “agreement to agree,” lacking in mutual 
assent and consideration.2  Upon viewing the evidence in the light most favorable 
to the verdict, we find substantial evidence supports the jury’s verdict finding a valid 
contract between the parties.  See Royal Indem. Co., 786 N.W.2d at 845–46.       
 
“For a contract to be valid, the parties must express mutual assent to the 
terms of the contract.”  Id. at 846 (citation omitted).  “Mutual assent is present when 
it is clear from the objective evidence that there has been a meeting of the minds.”  
Est. of Cox v. Dunakey & Klatt, P.C., 893 N.W.2d 295, 303 (Iowa 2017) (citation 
omitted).  “[W]hen the parties agree to a contract on a basis to be settled in the 
 
2 Meera also argues that the service agreement is unenforceable as a matter of 
“public policy and common sense.”  Because Meera presents no authority in 
support of this argument, we will not consider it on appeal.  See Iowa R. App. P. 
6.903(2)(a)(8)(3). 

 
8
future,” the requirement of mutual assent is not satisfied.  Whalen v. Connelly, 545 
N.W.2d 284, 293 (Iowa 1996) (“[A]n agreement to agree is not a contract.”). 
 
A meeting of the minds typically will be found only if the terms of a contract 
are “sufficiently definite for the court to determine the duty of each party and the 
conditions of performance.”  Royal Indem. Co., 786 N.W.2d at 846; see also 
Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 33 (Am. Law. Inst. 1981).  Definite terms are 
“understandable or ascertainable” at the time the contract is entered.   Air Host 
Cedar Rapids, Inc. v. Cedar Rapids Airport Comm’n, 464 N.W.2d 450, 453 (Iowa 
1990).  Iowa courts “are reluctant to hold a contract unenforceable for uncertainty 
and they bend every effort to avoid such a result.”  Palmer v. Albert, 310 N.W.2d 
169, 172 (Iowa 1981).  
 
Meera argues that the service agreement is unenforceable because it 
required the parties to execute a separate contract upon approval of a claim by 
Meera’s insurer.  The plain language of the service agreement undeniably 
obligated the parties to enter a future “Construction Agreement.”  But contrary to 
Meera’s position, the analysis does not end there.  A binding contract exists “where 
the parties have agreed upon all essential facts . . . , notwithstanding the fact that 
a more formal contract is to be prepared and signed later.”  McCarter v. Uban, 166 
N.W.2d 910, 914 (Iowa 1969) (citation omitted); accord Kunz v. Kunz, No. 15-1711, 
2016 WL 7403730, at *4 (Iowa Ct. App. Dec. 21, 2016).  Thus, the question before 
us is not simply whether the parties planned to sign another document at some 
future date; it is whether substantial evidence supports the jury’s determination that 

 
9
the parties “agreed upon all essential facts” at the time they entered the service 
agreement.3  McCarter, 166 N.W.2d at 913 (citation omitted).   
 
Aesthetic Elements alleges Meera breached a promise to either retain 
Aesthetic Elements for the storm repairs or pay a 20% cancellation fee.  We must 
consider whether that promise is enforceable under the service agreement.  See 
Nw. Bank & Tr. Co. v. Pershing Hill Lofts, LLC, No. 22-1941, 2024 WL 4964594, 
at *4 (Iowa Ct. App. Dec. 4, 2024) (“[W]hen an unenforceable agreement-to-agree 
term is part of an otherwise valid contract, other terms in the contract may still be 
enforced.”).  Meera contends there was no such enforceable contract because the 
service agreement fails to define the essential terms of Aesthetic Elements’ 
performance—particularly, the approved scope, price, and schedule for the repair 
work.  According to Meera, these terms were all to be set forth in the construction 
agreement, which “the parties never so much as discussed.”  We disagree.   
 
The essential terms of the work Aesthetic Elements promised to perform 
were “understandable or ascertainable” from the service agreement.  Air Host 
Cedar Rapids, 464 N.W.2d at 453.  For starters, although the agreement does not 
specify a total price for Aesthetic Elements’ work, it does fix the method by which 
Aesthetic Elements’ compensation would be determined: “the amount of the 
 
3 The jury was instructed: 
 
An agreement to agree at some point in the future is not a 
contract.  An agreement to agree to enter into a contract is of no 
effect unless all of the terms and conditions of the contract are 
agreed on and nothing is left to future negotiations.  A writing that 
clearly contemplates the subsequent signing of a formal agreement 
suggests that the parties to the writing did not intend to be bound 
until the subsequent formal agreement is finalized. 

 
10 
replacement cost value authorized by the Insurer (including all overhead and 
profit), plus the insurance deductible.”  Nothing about payment was left for further 
negotiation.  Where a contract’s terms provide a reasonably certain basis for 
determining price, the contract is enforceable.  See Arendt v. Vande Noord Const., 
Inc., No. 02-1624, 2003 WL 21459025, at *2 (Iowa Ct. App. June 25, 2003) (finding 
an oral contract to build a home on a “time and materials” basis was not fatally 
indefinite with respect to price). 
 
Likewise, the service agreement states that the scope of Aesthetic 
Elements’ performance was for work “necessary to repair or replace the damage 
to the Property.”  The agreement expressly defines that scope as “the Work” and 
makes Aesthetic Elements’ performance contingent upon the insurer’s approval of 
“a claim for the Work.”  In other words, the scope of Aesthetic Elements’ work 
would consist of whatever repairs the insurer approved.  That an essential term 
must be determined by reference to outside facts does not make a contract 
indefinite.  See Butts v. Iowa Health Sys., No. 13-1034, 2015 WL 1046119, at *8 
(Iowa Ct. App. March 11, 2015) (finding contract language referencing a hospital’s 
“regular rates and terms” was not indefinite where those rates and terms could be 
determined from extrinsic documents or facts). 
 
Meera also highlights that the service agreement does not include a 
schedule for Aesthetic Elements’ performance.  But that alone is not enough.  
“When a contract fails to specify time for performance, the parties must perform 
within a reasonable time.”  Fausel v. JRJ Enters., Inc., 603 N.W.2d 612, 619 (Iowa 
1999); see also Shelby Cnty. Cookers, L.L.C. v. Util. Consultants Int’l, Inc., 857 
N.W.2d 186, 192 (Iowa 2014); Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 33 cmt. d 

 
11 
(noting “contracts are often made which do not specify the time for performance,” 
and that when “the contract calls for a single performance . . . , the time for 
performance is a ‘reasonable time’”).   
 
Meera relies on two out-of-state cases finding construction contracts 
unenforceable for failure to define essential terms.  In LeMaster Construction, Inc. 
v. Mahoney, the Minnesota Court of Appeals found that the terms of an agreement 
for fire and water remediation services were “never fully settled” where the parties 
signed a document providing for a scope of work to be “authorized by [the 
homeowner’s] insurance company” and “specifically set forth in attached Exhibit 
‘A.’”  No. A06-1202, 2007 WL 1599192, at *3 (Minn. Ct. App. June 5, 2007).  No 
“Exhibit A” was ever prepared, and the parties were “still discussing” what work 
would be performed one month later.  Id.   
 
In Spokane Structures, Inc. v. Equitable Investment, LLC, the Idaho 
Supreme Court found an agreement for a commercial renovation project was 
unenforceable where the contractor agreed “to design, engineer, and draft plans 
in preparation of all documents/drawings required to enable the owner and 
contractor to agree on a final design and cost of construction to be performed.”  
226 P.3d 1263, 1264 (Idaho 2010).  Noting “both parties admitted that the 
[agreement] was not a binding contract because it was merely an agreement to 
agree,” the court reversed an underlying determination that the contractor’s 
equitable claims were barred.  Id. at 1268.   
 
Meera’s authorities are not persuasive.  The question in Spokane Structures 
was not whether definite terms could be ascertained, but whether an undisputedly 
non-binding agreement undermined a contractor’s equitable claims.  Id.  And the 

 
12 
court in LeMaster Construction focused on the parties’ subsequent negotiations in 
finding the “gap” created by a missing attachment had never in fact been closed.  
2007 WL 1599192, at *3.  The Minnesota Court of Appeals later distinguished 
LeMaster on its facts in a decision finding a nearly identical “insurance-proceeds” 
contract was not fatally indefinite.  See Smart Constr. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Suchy, 
No. A22-1524, 2023 WL 5525071, at *4 (Minn. Ct. App. Aug. 28, 2023) (upholding 
a jury’s special verdict finding an enforceable contract where the agreement 
provided the contractor would perform “all work approved” by the homeowner’s 
insurance company, if the authorized payment was acceptable to the contractor).4 
 
In this case, the parties’ intent to bind themselves under the service 
agreement is clear.  As another panel of this court recently observed, “a contract 
need not be lengthy or complex to be valid.  We need only to understand ‘the duty 
of each party and the conditions of performance.’”  Nw. Bank & Trust Co., 2024 
WL 4964594, at *5 (quoting Royal Indem. Co., 786 N.W.2d at 846).  We have that 
understanding here.  As the district court succinctly put it, “we have a signed 
service contract.”  Julka himself agreed.  See Kunz, 2016 WL 7403730, at *4 
(finding “substantial objective evidence to support the jury’s finding of a binding 
 
4 Nor do Meera’s authorities appear to reflect a national trend.  Cases from other 
states have deemed similar insurance restoration agreements sufficiently definite 
to enforce.  See, e.g., Cohen v. P&C Restoration Servs., LLC, No. 14-22-00907-
CV, 2024 WL 1868620, at *3 (Tex. App. Apr. 30, 2024) (finding an insurance 
restoration contract was not indefinite where “the scope of repairs agreed to by the 
insurer at the prices agreed to by the insurer form the essential terms of the 
agreement”); Helton v. U.S. Restoration & Remodeling, Inc., 61 N.E.3d 808, 821 
(Ohio Ct. App. 2016) (rejecting a homeowner’s argument that an insurance 
restoration agreement was fatally indefinite for lack of a fixed price, reasoning “the 
parties agreed to be bound to a price term reflecting the amount agreed on by the 
insurance company and [the contractor], with the provision that [the contractor] 
would perform such repairs at no cost to [the homeowner]”). 

 
13 
contract” when the party challenging the contract testified “the parties had reached 
an agreement”).  Julka testified that he reviewed the service agreement before it 
was signed, and he understood that Meera was retaining Aesthetic Elements to 
“fix the roof” on its hotel.  He stated that, “in [his] mind, it was very clear” Meera 
had an agreement and was “under [a] contract” with Aesthetic Elements.  Indeed, 
Julka testified that he believed Meera needed Aesthetic Elements’ permission 
before hiring a replacement contractor to perform repairs. 
 
“In analyzing issues of mutual assent, we are to look to what the parties did 
and said, rather than to some secret, undisclosed intention.”  Higdon v. Rana, No. 
23-1107, 2024 WL 4370048, at *6 (Iowa Ct. App. Oct. 2, 2024); accord Schaer v. 
Webster Cnty., 644 N.W.2d 327, 338 (Iowa 2002).  Despite Julka’s testimony 
otherwise, Meera contends that no reasonable juror could find the service 
agreement reflected a meeting of the minds because it expressly references “terms 
and conditions” of a construction agreement that Meera never saw, much less 
signed.5  But, again, the question for the jury was not whether the parties reached 
a meeting of the minds about what language would be set out in a future document.  
The question was whether Meera agreed for Aesthetic Elements to perform the 
repairs to the hotel roof.  Substantial evidence indicates that it did.  See Nw. Bank 
& Trust Co., 2024 WL 4964594, at 4–5 (finding an “exclusivity clause” in a financing 
 
5 In response, Aesthetic Elements suggests the terms of the construction 
agreement were incorporated into the service agreement, pointing to the Langans’ 
testimony that they considered the construction agreement to be a non-negotiable 
addendum.  On that point, we disagree.  Nothing in the service agreement calls 
the construction agreement an “addendum,” nor does it expressly incorporate the 
construction agreement’s terms.  But because we find substantial evidence for a 
meeting of the minds under the service agreement alone, it makes no difference 
that the construction agreement was not incorporated. 

 
14 
proposal was not “an agreement to agree” where the clause prohibited the 
borrower “from seeking financing from other lenders while the parties are engaged 
in due diligence”). 
 
We also find substantial evidence that the service agreement was 
supported by consideration.  Consideration exists if the promisee “does or 
promises to do something the promisee has no legal obligation to do” or “refrains, 
or promises to refrain, from doing something the promisee has a legal right to do.”  
Margeson v. Artis, 776 N.W.2d 652, 656 (Iowa 2009).  Meera contends that 
consideration is lacking because the only promise it made to Aesthetic Elements 
was an unenforceable promise to sign another agreement.  The district court 
rejected this argument in its ruling on Meera’s motion for judgment notwithstanding 
the verdict, finding substantial evidence that Meera promised to pay Aesthetic 
Elements the claim proceeds and deductible in return for Aesthetic Elements’ 
promise to perform repairs approved by Meera’s insurance company.  We agree.  
For the reasons already discussed, substantial evidence supports the jury’s verdict 
that Meera promised to do more than sign a construction agreement.   
 
C. 
Material Breach 
  
 
Meera briefly argues that any obligation it owed under the service 
agreement was excused by a prior material breach: Aesthetic Elements’ failure to 
submit a scope of work to Meera’s insurer.6  A material breach of contract 
 
6 Meera also suggests that Aesthetic Elements breached by failing to present a 
construction agreement for Meera’s signature.  But on the plain language of the 
service agreement, any such duty would not come due until Meera’s insurer 
approved Aesthetic Elements’ scope of work.  No one disputes that Aesthetic 
Elements’ scope of work was never approved, although North-West’s was. 

 
15 
discharges the duties of the non-breaching party, but not automatically.  Dolly 
Invs., LLC v. MMG Sioux City, LLC, 984 N.W.2d 168, 177 (Iowa 2023).  When the 
contract is silent on the consequences of breach, a non-breaching party’s 
performance is suspended pending the breaching party’s opportunity to cure.  Id. 
Only when it is too late to cure will the non-breaching party’s obligations be finally 
discharged.  Id.; see also Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 242 & cmt. a 
(discussing the circumstances to be considered in determining the time after which 
a party’s uncured breach discharges the other party’s remaining duties).   
 
At trial, Cody Langan testified that he began preparing Aesthetic Elements’ 
estimate for repairs to the hotel roof on September 3, 2020.  According to Langan, 
Julka instructed him to send the completed scope of work to Jeff Martin, a public 
adjuster.  Langan testified that he emailed the scope of work to Martin on October 
15.  A screenshot of the email from Langan to Martin was admitted into evidence 
over Meera’s objection.  Langan testified that he could not communicate directly 
with West Bend so long as a public adjuster was involved with the claim. 
 
Langan also testified that between September 3 and October 15, Julka 
never asked Aesthetic Elements to speed up its work or stop altogether.  Langan 
said that Aesthetic Elements was unaware Meera had hired a replacement 
contractor until sometime in November 2020, when his brother Steven saw 
workers on top of the hotel roof.  Julka, on the other hand, testified that he 
complained to Cody Langan about Aesthetic Elements’ pace “almost every day” 
and that he told Langan in September that Meera would be changing contractors.  
Undisputedly, North-West was conducting repairs on the roof by November 7.   

 
16 
 
Suffice it to say, the trial record about the circumstances of Aesthetic 
Elements’ performance is conflicted.  Meera offers no reason to disregard Cody 
Langan’s testimony.  Crediting Langan’s account, a reasonable juror could find that 
Aesthetic Elements submitted its scope of work to Meera’s preferred recipient,7 
that Meera did not voice concerns about the timeliness of Aesthetic Elements’ 
performance, and that Meera authorized North-West to proceed with the repairs 
without offering Aesthetic Elements an opportunity to cure.  See Van Sickle Const. 
Co. v. Wachovia Com. Mortg., Inc., 783 N.W.2d 684, 687 (Iowa 2010) (“Evidence 
is substantial if a reasonable mind would find it adequate to support a finding,” 
taking “into consideration all reasonable inferences that could fairly be made by 
the jury.”).  We accordingly conclude there was substantial evidence for the jury to 
conclude that Meera’s duties were not discharged.   
 
D. 
Liquidated Damages 
 
Meera claims the district court erred in finding that the service agreement’s 
liquidated-damages provision was enforceable.  We review a determination on the 
enforceability of a liquidated-damages provision for correction of errors at law.  
Rohlin Constr. Co. v. City of Hinton, 476 N.W.2d 78, 79 (Iowa 1991).   
 
“[P]arties may fix damages by contract when the amount of damages is 
uncertain and the amount fixed is fair.”  Id.  However, liquidated-damages 
provisions that seek to punish for breach, rather than compensate for loss, are 
 
7 Meera denies ever hiring Martin to handle its claim for the hotel roof.  But exhibits 
admitted at trial show that Julka texted Langan with Martin’s contact information 
on October 6, and that, five days earlier, Julka had informed West Bend that Meera 
intended to hire a public adjuster.   

 
17 
unenforceable on public policy grounds.  Id. at 80.  Two factors guide courts in 
determining whether liquidated damages are compensatory or penal: (1) whether 
the amount of damages reasonably approximates “the anticipated or actual loss 
caused 
by 
the 
breach” 
and 
(2) 
“the 
difficulty 
of 
proof 
of 
loss.”  Id. (quoting Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 356 cmt. b). 
 
The service agreement provides that Meera would pay Aesthetic Elements 
a fee equal to 20% of the insurer-approved replacement costs if Meera declined to 
proceed with Aesthetic Elements for performance of roof repairs.  The district court 
found this fixed fee was appropriate given the profit margin Aesthetic Elements 
anticipated for its repair work and the unknown scope of the project at the time the 
service agreement was signed.  On appeal, Meera contends that Aesthetic 
Elements failed to adequately explain why its standardized service agreement sets 
liquidated damages at 20%.  According to Meera, it “defies reason to suggest 20% 
of the replacement cost value of every single Construction Agreement Aesthetic 
Elements enters into approximates the anticipated or actual losses of preparing an 
estimate on any particular project.”   
 
Meera’s arguments are unavailing.  Whether the service agreement’s 20% 
fee would approximate Aesthetic Elements’ losses on other projects is irrelevant 
to determining the reasonableness of liquidated damages here.  See id. (“The 
amount fixed is reasonable to the extent that it approximates the actual loss that 
has resulted from the particular breach, even though it may not approximate the 
loss that might have been anticipated under other possible breaches.” (citation 
omitted)).  And while Meera asserts that awarding liquidated damages in 
proportion to ultimate replacement costs creates a “windfall for the contractor who 

 
18 
has maybe just taken some photographs and started to prepare a scope of loss,” 
that position forgets that Aesthetic Elements is entitled to more than the value of 
its inspection work.  “When a contract has been breached the nonbreaching party 
is generally entitled to damages that will place that party in as good a position as 
he or she would have occupied had the contract been performed.”  UE Loc. 
893/IUP v. State, 997 N.W.2d 1, 11 (Iowa 2023) (cleaned up).  Liquidated damages 
under the service agreement must be measured against the entire benefit of the 
bargain Aesthetic Elements stood to receive, including the profits from its 
anticipated repair work. 
 
Steve Langan testified that Aesthetic Elements typically bakes in a 20% 
profit margin when preparing estimates on insurance restoration projects.  His 
brother concurred that 20% is the industry standard.  That said, the evidence 
showed that Aesthetic Elements would have seen an even better margin on the 
Meera project.  Accounting for Aesthetic Elements’ expected costs, Steve Langan 
estimated profits of $179,945—a roughly 40% return on the claim approved by 
West Bend and nearly double the liquidated damages amount of $93,329.14.  In 
other words, Aesthetic Elements’ liquidated damages were not “unreasonably 
large” in comparison to its expected profits.  Rohlin, 476 N.W.2d at 81.  And 
although Meera disputes the reliability of Langan’s calculations, the district court 
credited his testimony.  This court does not second-guess credibility 
determinations on appeal.  See Tim O'Neill Chevrolet, Inc. v. Forristall, 551 N.W.2d 
611, 614 (Iowa 1996) (“[O]ur task is to determine whether substantial evidence 
supports the district court’s findings according to those witnesses whom the court 

 
19 
believed.”).  For these reasons, we conclude substantial evidence supports the 
court’s determination that the liquidated damages provision is enforceable.  
 
E. 
Lost-profits Testimony 
 
Meera next claims the district court abused its discretion in allowing Steve 
Langan to testify about Aesthetic Elements’ lost profits.  It contends this evidence 
should have been excluded because Aesthetic Elements failed to disclose it was 
seeking lost-profit damages until after the close of written discovery.  It also argues 
that Langan’s testimony about Aesthetic Elements’ damages strayed into the realm 
of undesignated expert opinion.8   
 
We need not decide these issues because the “the erroneous admission of 
evidence does not require reversal unless a substantial right of the party is 
affected.”  Konchar v. Pins, 989 N.W.2d 150, 162 (Iowa 2023) (internal quotation 
marks omitted) (citation omitted).  “The burden rests upon the appellant not only 
to establish error but to further show that prejudice resulted.”  Id. (cleaned up).  
Meera has not made that showing.   
 
The jury did not award lost-profit damages to Aesthetic Elements.  Meera 
suggests that “perhaps” Langan’s lost-profits testimony encouraged the jury to 
“compromise” by awarding liquidated damages, and that the jury might “have opted 
for . . . a lower number of unjust enrichment damages” had it never heard evidence 
about Aesthetic Elements’ actual damages.  But this argument is too speculative 
 
8 In its reply brief, Meera also argues for the first time that Exhibit 35, which Steve 
Langan relied on in his testimony about Aesthetic Elements’ damages, should 
have been excluded as inadmissible hearsay and improper summary evidence.  
Absent exceptional circumstances, we do not consider issues raised for the first 
time in a reply brief.  Villa Magana v. State, 908 N.W.2d 255, 260 (Iowa 2018). 

 
20 
to carry Meera’s burden.  Further, even assuming Langan’s anticipated testimony 
was inadequately disclosed, that did not stop Meera from examining Langan at 
length about the reliability of his calculations at trial.  We accordingly reject this 
assignment of error.     
 
F. 
Spoliation Instruction 
 
 
Last, Meera challenges the district court’s rulings on Exhibit 34—a 
screenshot of the October 15, 2020 email by which Cody Langan transmitted 
Aesthetic Elements’ scope of work to Jeff Martin.  According to Meera, this 
evidence should have been excluded because “Aesthetic Elements never 
produced the original email or took reasonable steps to do so.”  Meera further 
argues that Aesthetic Elements’ lack of “a satisfactory explanation” for why it could 
not produce an original copy entitled Meera to a spoliation instruction.   
 
On these issues, Meera fails to show any reversible error.  Cody Langan 
testified that he could not forward or retrieve the email after Aesthetic Elements’ 
web host made changes to its email service during the litigation.  Langan testified 
he spent hours trying to retrieve the email from an old mailbox on his iPad, but a 
screenshot was the best he could do.  Given this testimony, the district court 
properly concluded that Aesthetic Elements’ failure to produce an original copy fell 
short of spoliation.  See Lynch v. Saddler, 656 N.W.2d 104, 107 (Iowa 2003) 
(explaining a party seeking a spoliation instruction must “show both intentional 
destruction and control of the evidence,” and that a “spoliation inference should be 
utilized prudently and sparingly” (citation omitted)).  And the court was within its 
discretion to decline exclusion on discovery grounds. 

 
21 
IV. 
Conclusion 
 
Having considered all the challenges raised by Meera on appeal, we affirm 
the jury’s verdict awarding Aesthetic Elements $93,329 in liquidated damages for 
Meera’s breach of the parties’ enforceable service agreement. 
 
AFFIRMED.   
 
