FOR PUBLICATION 
 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
 
 
ASARCO LLC, a Delaware 
corporation, 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 
 
v. 
 
ATLANTIC RICHFIELD COMPANY, 
LLC, a Delaware corporation, 
Defendant-Appellant, 
 
and 
 
BRITISH PETROLEUM, PLC, a United 
Kingdom Corporation; AMERICAN 
CHEMET CORPORATION, a Montana 
Corporation, 
Defendants. 
 
No. 18-35934 
 
D.C. No. 
6:12-cv-00053-
DLC 
 
 
OPINION 
 
Appeal from the United States District Court 
for the District of Montana 
Dana L. Christensen, District Judge, Presiding 
 
Argued and Submitted April 27, 2020 
Seattle, Washington 
 
Filed September 14, 2020 
 

2 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
Before:  M. Margaret McKeown, N. Randy Smith, and 
Jacqueline H. Nguyen, Circuit Judges. 
 
Opinion by Judge Nguyen 
 
 
SUMMARY* 
 
  
Environmental Law 
 
 
The panel affirmed in part and vacated in part the district 
court’s judgment, after a bench trial, in favor of the plaintiff 
in a contribution action under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. 
 
 
Plaintiff ASARCO LLC entered into a consent decree 
with the Environmental Protection Agency to clean up 
environmental contamination at several sites, including a 
Superfund Site in East Helena, Montana.  Asarco, former 
operator of a lead smelting facility, then brought a CERCLA 
contribution action against Atlantic Richfield Co., successor 
in interest to the operator of a zinc fuming plant  The district 
court found that Asarco had incurred $111.4 million in 
necessary response costs for the cleanup of the Site and that 
Atlantic Richfield was responsible for 25% of that sum. 
 
 
Vacating and remanding in part, the panel held that the 
district court erred in its determination of the necessary 
response costs incurred by Asarco.  Specifically, the district 
court erred when it counted the full settlement amount, 
 
* This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court.  It 
has been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader. 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
3 
 
including about $50 million of funds that had not been, and 
might never be, spent on the Site cleanup, as response costs 
subject to contribution at this stage of the Site cleanup.  The 
panel remanded for further consideration of what response 
costs were sufficiently concrete and non-speculative such 
that they would be eligible for contribution under CERCLA.  
 
 
Affirming in part, the panel held that the district court 
did not err in allocating responsibility for 25% of the 
response costs to Atlantic Richfield.  The panel held that the 
district court property exercised its discretion in its 
consideration of appropriate equitable factors and did not 
clearly err in its factual findings supporting its allocation 
decision. 
  
 
COUNSEL 
 
Shannon Wells Stevenson (argued), Benjamin B. Strawn, 
and Kellen N. Wittkop, Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP, 
Denver, Colorado; Elisabeth S. Theodore and Stephen K. 
Wirth, Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer LLP, Washington, 
D.C.; for Defendant-Appellant. 
 
Gregory Evans (argued), McGuireWoods LLP, Los 
Angeles, California; Benjamin L. Hatch, McGuireWoods 
LLP, Washington, D.C.; Kris A. McLean, Kris A. McLean 
Law Firm PLLC, Missoula, Montana; Rachel H. Parkin, 
Milodragovich Dale & Steinbrenner P.C., Missoula, 
Montana; for Plaintiff-Appellee. 
 
 
 
 
 

4 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
OPINION 
NGUYEN, Circuit Judge: 
In June 2009, ASARCO LLC (“Asarco”) agreed to settle 
with the government and enter into a consent decree to clean 
up environmental contamination at several sites, including a 
Superfund Site in East Helena, Montana (the “Site”).  Asarco 
then brought a contribution action under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (“CERCLA”), 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601–9675, against 
Atlantic Richfield Company, LLC (“Atlantic Richfield”).  
Following a bench trial, the district court entered judgment 
in favor of Asarco, finding that Asarco had incurred 
$111.4 million in necessary response costs for the cleanup of 
the Site and that Atlantic Richfield was responsible for 
twenty-five percent of that sum.  Atlantic Richfield 
appealed.  We have jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§ 1291.  We hold that the district court erred in its 
determination of the necessary response costs incurred by 
Asarco, but the court did not err in allocating twenty-five 
percent liability to Atlantic Richfield.  We therefore vacate 
and remand in part, and affirm in part. 
I.  BACKGROUND 
A. Operations at the Site 
Asarco and its predecessors owned and operated a lead 
smelting facility at the Site from 1888 to 2001.  Asarco’s 
lead smelting facility was the largest operation at the Site.  
This operation recovered lead and other metals by smelting 
a variety of foreign and domestic concentrates, ores, fluxes, 
and other non-ferrous, 
metalbearing 
materials and 
byproducts. 
 
Those 
materials 
contained 
arsenic 
concentrations as high as 190,000 parts per million (“ppm”).  

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
5 
 
The smelting operation produced slag as a waste product, 
which contained small residual quantities of metals and 
arsenic.  It is undisputed that Asarco “released significant 
amounts of arsenic into the environment” from its smelting 
facility. 
Atlantic Richfield is the successor in interest to 
Anaconda, which leased a portion of the Site from Asarco to 
construct and operate a zinc fuming plant.  Using a blast 
furnace fueled with coal, Anaconda reprocessed slag that it 
purchased from Asarco to recover zinc.  Anaconda used and 
produced several arsenic-bearing materials in its fuming 
operation, albeit with a lower arsenic concentration than 
Asarco’s primary materials.  Anaconda operated the zinc 
fuming plant from 1927 to 1972, at which point it sold the 
plant to Asarco.  Asarco then operated the zinc fuming plant 
for another decade. 
B. EPA Involvement and Remediation 
In 1984, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) 
added the Site to the CERCLA National Priorities List, 
targeting it for environmental remediation.  The primary 
environmental concern at the Site was arsenic contamination 
of the groundwater.  In the years that followed, Asarco 
entered into a series of agreements with the EPA to begin the 
process of remediation. 
In 1990, Asarco and the EPA finalized a settlement 
agreement and consent decree in CERCLA litigation 
concerning the contamination of the process ponds at the 
Site.  Pursuant to the consent decree, Asarco agreed to 
undertake a cleanup of the process ponds, which it 
substantially completed by 1997. 

6 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
In 1998, Asarco and the EPA entered into another 
settlement agreement and consent decree, this time resolving 
claims brought by the EPA under the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act and the Clean Water Act.  The settlement 
did not raise any claims under CERCLA. 
On August 9, 2005, Asarco filed a Chapter 11 
bankruptcy petition.  In connection with the bankruptcy 
proceedings, the United States, the State of Montana, and the 
State of Montana Department of Environmental Quality all 
filed proofs of claim for Asarco’s projected liability under 
CERCLA.  Asarco, the United States, and the State of 
Montana reached two complementary settlement agreements 
and consent decrees in February and June 2009, resolving 
Asarco’s outstanding environmental liabilities at several 
Montana sites, including the Site at issue in this case. 
The June 2009 consent decree established a custodial 
trust for the affected sites, and the Montana Environmental 
Trust Group (“METG”) was appointed as the custodial 
trustee for the East Helena Site.  The June 2009 consent 
decree also designated the EPA as the lead agency for the 
Site, placing it in charge of selecting, approving, and 
authorizing all work performed and funds expended by 
METG.  Pursuant to the June 2009 consent decree, Asarco 
paid approximately $111.4 million1 for cleanup of the East 
Helena Site—accounting for comprehensive damage done to 
the Site by all responsible parties.  That sum included: 
(a) $99.294 million into the East Helena Custodial Trust 
 
1 In total, Asarco paid $1.8 billion to settle environmental claims 
related to hazardous waste in the bankruptcy proceedings. 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
7 
 
Cleanup Account for a groundwater remedy;2 (b) 
$6,403,743 toward the establishment of the Custodial Trust 
and the funding of the Custodial Administrative Account to 
be used for trust administration expenses; (c) $706,000 to the 
U.S. Department of the Interior for natural resource 
restoration and future oversight costs for the Site; and (d) $5 
million to the State of Montana for compensatory natural 
resource damages at the Site. 
METG has begun its remediation work at the Site.  So 
far, it has fully implemented three interim measures to curb 
the spread of contaminants and further environmental 
degradation at the Site.  METG also has implemented 
institutional controls for the Site and the surrounding areas, 
designed to prevent property owners from using their 
domestic water wells to avoid contact with contaminated 
groundwater.  METG proposes one additional future project: 
capping the portion of the slag pile at the Site that consists 
of unfumed slag.  METG has not instated and does not plan 
to install a pump-and-treat system. 
As of the most recent accounting available, METG had 
spent a little less than half of the trust funds at its disposal, 
leaving it with approximately $50 million for further 
remediation efforts.  Atlantic Richfield’s expert estimated 
the ongoing costs for operations and maintenance at 
$9.2 million, and METG estimated the cost of covering the 
unfumed slag at $3.7 million.  Adding those sums to the 
dollar amount already expended by METG, the total cleanup 
cost for the Site would approximate $61.4 million.  Asarco 
contends that Atlantic Richfield’s expert vastly understates 
 
2 This figure was based on estimates for a pump-and-treat system 
recommended by the State of Montana’s experts, William Bucher and 
Ann Maest. 

8 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
how costly the cleanup would be.  Asarco’s expert opined 
that METG’s proposed remedies would be insufficient to 
address the groundwater contamination and that more 
substantial remediation work would be necessary. 
C.  Procedural History 
In 2012, Asarco brought this contribution action against 
Atlantic Richfield under CERCLA §§ 107 and 113.  The 
district court granted summary judgment in favor of Atlantic 
Richfield, finding the action barred by the statute of 
limitations.  Asarco appealed, and we concluded that 
Asarco’s contribution claim was, in fact, timely.  See Asarco 
LLC v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 866 F.3d 1108 (9th Cir. 2017).  
We vacated the district court’s summary judgment order and 
remanded for further proceedings before the trial judge.  Id. 
On remand, the district court conducted an eight-day 
bench trial, weighted heavily toward expert testimony.  
Following trial, the district court issued detailed findings of 
fact and conclusions of law and entered judgment in favor of 
Asarco.  The court found that Asarco had expended 
$111,403,743 in necessary response costs for cleanup of the 
Site3 and that Atlantic Richfield was liable for twenty-five 
percent of those costs, i.e., $27,850,936.  The court also 
granted an additional $1 million award to Asarco, based on 
its findings as to Atlantic Richfield’s failure to cooperate 
with the authorities and its misrepresentations to the EPA 
and to Asarco.4  Atlantic Richfield moved to alter or amend 
 
3 This figure is the amount paid by Asarco in connection with the 
June 2009 consent decree. 
4 Atlantic Richfield does not challenge on appeal the imposition of 
this additional $1 million award. 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
9 
 
the judgment, but the district court denied the motion.  This 
appeal timely followed. 
II.  ANALYSIS 
A. The District Court Erred by Including Speculative 
Future Costs in its Tabulation of Necessary Response 
Costs Eligible for Contribution Under CERCLA. 
Atlantic Richfield argues that the district court erred in 
finding that Asarco incurred $111.4 million in necessary 
response costs for the environmental cleanup of the Site, 
because that sum improperly included (i) costs that had not 
yet been, and might never be, incurred; and (ii) costs that 
were not necessary to protect human health and the 
environment.  Atlantic Richfield contends those costs are 
unrecoverable under CERCLA, and that the response costs 
eligible for contribution should be limited to the 
$61.4 million that it represents have been incurred so far to 
remediate the Site. 
We review for clear error the district court’s findings of 
fact following a bench trial, and we review de novo its 
conclusions of law and mixed questions of law and fact.  
OneBeacon Ins. Co. v. Haas Indus., Inc., 634 F.3d 1092, 
1096 (9th Cir. 2011).  We hold that the district court erred 
when it counted the full settlement amount—including about 
$50 million of funds that had not been, and might never be, 
spent on the Site cleanup—as response costs subject to 
contribution at this stage of the Site cleanup.  We therefore 
vacate and remand for further consideration of what 
response costs are sufficiently concrete and non-speculative 
such that they would be eligible for contribution under 
CERCLA. 

10 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
The parties agree on the initial premise that, pursuant to 
the CERCLA contribution regime, Asarco is entitled to 
recover an allocated proportion of the “necessary costs of 
response incurred . . . consistent with the national 
contingency plan.”  42 U.S.C. § 9607(a)(4)(B).  From that 
point, their positions diverge. 
Atlantic Richfield contends that those funds not yet spent 
or earmarked for specific, imminent work cannot qualify as 
costs “incurred.”  It relies on cases that prohibit recovery 
under CERCLA for future response costs or the award of 
speculative damages unmoored to concrete expenses.  See 
Stanton Rd. Assocs. v. Lohrey Enters., 984 F.2d 1015, 1021–
22 (9th Cir. 1993); In re Dant & Russell, Inc., 951 F.2d 246, 
249–50 (9th Cir. 1991).  Atlantic Richfield asserts that 
METG no longer expects to implement the costly pump-and-
treat remedy, instead planning to carry out cheaper remedial 
actions that would leave a large portion of the settlement 
funds untouched.  It also cites to a reversion provision in the 
settlement agreement, whereby unused settlement funds 
would be redirected to remediate other sites for which 
Atlantic Richfield has no liability. 
Asarco responds that the costs for which it seeks 
contribution were actually “incurred.”  It argues that the 
entire sum paid in settlement, $111.4 million, was intended 
to fund the environmental cleanup of the Site, as evidenced 
by the fact that the reversion provision does not allow the 
return of any funds to Asarco’s hands.  Based on its 
irrevocable payment, Asarco says it “incurred” those 
response costs within the meaning of the statute.  Asarco 
attempts to distinguish the cases cited by Atlantic Richfield, 
noting that they occurred in different contexts and lacked the 
same type of firm monetary commitment that Asarco 
undertook here.  And Asarco points to cases from other 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
11 
 
circuits allowing recovery of future costs, arguing that 
precluding recovery for such costs could undermine 
CERCLA’s policy objective of incentivizing settlements and 
early, accountable cleanup.  See RSR Corp. v. Commercial 
Metals Co., 496 F.3d 552, 558–60 (6th Cir. 2007); Am. 
Cyanamid Co. v. Capuano, 381 F.3d 6, 26–27 (1st Cir. 
2004); Action Mfg., Co. v. Simon Wrecking Co., 287 Fed. 
App’x 171, 174–76 (3d Cir. 2008); PCS Nitrogen, Inc. v. 
Ross Dev. Corp., 104 F. Supp. 3d 729, 744 (D.S.C. 2015). 
On this factual record, Atlantic Richfield has the better 
argument.  We have held that the full dollar value of a 
settlement agreement to discharge CERCLA liability is not 
automatically subject to contribution.  AmeriPride Servs. 
Inc. v. Texas E. Overseas Inc., 782 F.3d 474, 490 (9th Cir. 
2015) (“[I]f a party who was liable under § 9607(a) entered 
into a settlement agreement to discharge its CERCLA 
liability to a third party, it can seek contribution under 
§ 9613(f)(1) only for the settlement costs that were for 
necessary response costs incurred consistent with the 
NCP.”).  In many cases, the full settlement amount may 
equate with the necessary response costs incurred—but that 
is not inherently so.  Thus, funding a settlement obligation, 
on its own, does not automatically render the entire sum 
compensable in a contribution action, even if that payment 
is irrevocable.  A party seeking contribution must still show 
that the settlement amount represents “necessary response 
costs incurred consistent with the NCP.”  Id.  Although the 
meaning of “incur” is sufficiently broad that it does not 
require that an expense already be paid, it is also not so broad 
that it encompasses future expenses that are mere 
potentialities.  See Trimble v. Asarco, Inc., 232 F.3d 946, 958 
(8th Cir. 2000) (“We do not dispute plaintiffs’ point that a 
party may be found to have ‘incurred’ a cost without having 
actually paid for it[;] . . . a finding that a cost has been 

12 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
‘incurred’ may be based upon an existing legal obligation.  
However, the mere possibility, even the certainty, that an 
obligation to pay will arise in the future does not establish 
that a cost has been incurred, but rather establishes that a cost 
may be incurred, or will be incurred.”), abrogated on other 
grounds by Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Servs., Inc., 
545 U.S. 546 (2005); see also Chubb Custom Ins. Co. v. 
Space Sys./Loral, Inc., 710 F.3d 946, 961 (9th Cir. 2013) 
(explaining that courts apply the ordinary meaning of the 
term “incur” in the CERCLA context, “which is ‘[t]o acquire 
or come into,’ ‘[t]o become liable or subject to as a result of 
one’s action,’ to ‘bring upon oneself’” (quoting Am. 
Heritage Dictionary (4th ed. 2000)) (alterations in original)). 
Reinforcing our focus on non-speculative costs actually 
incurred, our circuit historically has refused to award future 
response costs.  Stanton Rd., 984 F.2d at 1021–22 (holding 
that “CERCLA prohibits awards of future response costs” 
and finding error in the district court’s order requiring 
defendants to place $1.1 million in escrow for future cleanup 
costs); Dant & Russell, 951 F.2d at 249–50 (explaining that 
response costs not yet incurred cannot be recovered under 
CERCLA, and highlighting that “[s]ection 9607(a)(4)(B) 
permits an action for response costs ‘incurred’—not ‘to be 
incurred’”).  Likewise, we have found “no suggestion in the 
statute that Congress intended CERCLA to create a general 
federal right of contribution for damages and response costs 
that are not otherwise cognizable under the statute.”  
AmeriPride, 782 F.3d at 490 (quoting Cty. Line Inv. Co. v. 
Tinney, 933 F.2d 1508, 1517 (10th Cir. 1991)).  Therefore, 
we conclude that speculative, potential future response costs 
are not recoverable in a CERCLA contribution action, even 
if the party seeking contribution has already made an outlay 
for such costs pursuant to a settlement.  Instead, a declaratory 
judgment, whereby liability for future response costs would 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
13 
 
be allocated at a set percentage across responsible parties, is 
the proper mechanism for recouping future response costs in 
the CERCLA regime.5  See Boeing Co. v. Cascade Corp., 
207 F.3d 1177, 1191 (9th Cir. 2000) (holding that 
declaratory judgments are appropriate not only in the context 
of cost recovery actions brought under 42 U.S.C. § 9607, but 
also in CERCLA contribution actions brought under 
42 U.S.C. § 9613). 
Here, based on the most recent accounting as of trial, 
METG had spent only about $48.5 million of its allocated 
funds, leaving it with another $50 million for further cleanup 
efforts.  Although the settlement figure was based on the 
estimated cost of a pump-and-treat remedy,6 METG does not 
plan to implement a pump-and-treat remedy at this time.  It 
considers a pump-and-treat remedy too costly, potentially 
ineffective, and risky in that it could affect the stability of 
the arsenic-contaminated groundwater plume.  Instead, 
METG’s proposed final remedies are meaningfully less 
costly—quoted to bring the full cleanup costs for the Site to 
about $61.4 million. 
Asarco challenges METG’s assessment and proffered 
the expert testimony of Margaret Staub, who emphasized 
that the original settlement contemplated implementation of 
a pump-and-treat system at the Site.  Staub opined that the 
 
5 We also do not intend to foreclose a settling party from seeking 
contribution for costs not yet incurred in a future action, once those costs 
have been incurred within the meaning of CERCLA, to the extent 
otherwise permitted by law. 
6 The settlement does not require that any particular remedial 
measure be taken to clean up the Site.  Therefore, the settlement does not 
specifically mandate a pump-and-treat remedy, even though it was 
priced with such a remedy in mind. 

14 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
measures proposed by METG likely would not restore the 
groundwater to acceptable levels, and that, while she could 
not say definitively what the final remedy would be, 
“something at some point is going to have to be done.”  But 
Staub’s opinion, upon which the district court relied, does 
not provide sufficiently concrete evidence that the entire sum 
would likely be expended to remediate the Site.  Not only is 
Staub’s opinion steeped in speculation to begin with, but 
there is a vast logical leap from the broad conclusion that 
“something” further will need to be done to remediate the 
Site, to the specific quantification of the necessary response 
costs for the Site at $111.4 million or greater. 
In short, Asarco relies on conjecture rather than firmly-
grounded facts and figures.  As noted, METG has not paid 
for or assumed an obligation to pay for a pump-and-treat 
remedy, nor has it earmarked any funds for that purpose.  At 
this stage, any such response costs remain speculative.  
Further adding to the uncertainty surrounding total response 
costs, the settlement contains a reversion provision that 
redirects any unused Site cleanup funds to other causes, 
including the other contaminated properties subject to the 
broader settlement.  Although Asarco is liable for the 
cleanup of all the covered properties, Atlantic Richfield is 
not. 
Asarco’s argument, which the district court adopted, 
strays from CERCLA’s legal framework.  The district court 
explained: 
The Court . . . concludes that unless and until 
the groundwater is restored to achieve 
[maximum contaminant levels] and drinking 
water standards, something more substantial 
will need to be done.  Whether there remain[] 
sufficient funds in the trust to accomplish this 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
15 
 
task, and whether a pump and treat system is 
the ultimate solution, are not the controlling 
questions.  Regardless of the answer to those 
two questions, and notwithstanding Atlantic 
Richfield’s arguments to the contrary, the 
Court is convinced that the balance of the 
approximate $50 million in the trust will most 
likely be expended to achieve the mandated 
remediation results. 
Working from that premise, the court found the full 
$111.4 million settlement amount to be necessary response 
costs eligible for contribution.  While we do not question the 
district court’s finding that further remedial action may be 
necessary in the future, its forecast was not adequately 
tethered to any concrete evidence in the record. 
If, as the district court concludes, “something more 
substantial will need to be done,” a party in Asarco’s 
position ultimately can recover the corresponding response 
costs from its fellow responsible parties.  But until further 
information is known about the nature and costs of that 
“something more,” those future costs are not eligible for 
contribution.  In the meantime, the contribution-seeker can 
pursue (i) contribution for those necessary response costs 
that have been incurred to date, and (ii) a declaratory 
judgment to establish liability and a contribution allocation 
for those costs that have not been incurred yet, but may be 
incurred in the future. 
We emphasize, however, that our holding is a narrow 
one.  We are presented with a cash-out bankruptcy 
settlement, reached as part of a global settlement of liability 
for several contaminated sites, with a reversion provision 
that diverts unused funds to other sites for which only one of 

16 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
the parties is responsible.  We likewise face the unusual 
scenario in which the projected costs of the remediation 
process, as well as the proposed means of remediation, have 
fluctuated dramatically since the time the settlement was 
reached; significantly, one of the core facets of the initial 
remediation plan, a pump-and-treat remedy, now appears 
extremely unlikely to come to fruition.  On this record, 
Asarco has failed to adequately support its asserted response 
costs. 
Finally, to the extent the parties disagree about whether 
the costs of a pump-and-treat system (or other yet-to-be-
incurred costs) would be “necessary,” we need not resolve 
the parties’ dispute.  Because such costs have not been 
incurred, they cannot be awarded even if they satisfy the 
remaining requirements for contribution eligibility.  For 
these reasons, we vacate the district court’s finding that the 
full $111.4 million settlement amount was eligible for 
contribution and remand for further consideration of what 
necessary response costs were actually incurred within the 
meaning of CERCLA. 
B. The District Court Did Not Err in Allocating 
Responsibility for Twenty-Five Percent of the 
Response Costs to Atlantic Richfield. 
Atlantic Richfield argues that the district court inflated 
its liability far beyond its actual environmental impact and 
ascribed to it a share of the response costs that bore little 
relation to the evidence presented at trial.  Specifically, 
Atlantic Richfield contends that the district court failed to 
take account of the volume and toxicity of the waste each 
party handled; failed to explain adequately what factors it 
considered in reaching its allocation; and arrived at an 
allocation that meaningfully outpaced the level of 
contamination it could have caused.  We disagree, and we 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
17 
 
hold that the district court did not err in devising an equitable 
allocation of liability for the Site cleanup. 
In a contribution action, CERCLA empowers a district 
court to “allocate response costs among liable parties using 
such equitable factors as the court determines are 
appropriate.”  42 U.S.C. § 9613(f)(1).  On appeal, we then 
“review for an abuse of discretion the equitable factors that 
a district court considers in allocating CERCLA costs and 
review for clear error the allocation according to the selected 
factors.”  TDY Holdings, LLC v. United States, 885 F.3d 
1142, 1146–47 (9th Cir. 2018). 
As an initial matter, we conclude that the district court 
properly exercised its discretion by anchoring its analysis 
around the so-called “Gore factors.”7  See id. at 1147 
(approving of the use of the Gore factors in CERCLA costs 
allocation); United States v. Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. 
Co., 520 F.3d 918, 940 n.26 (9th Cir. 2008) (same), rev’d on 
other grounds, 556 U.S. 599 (2009).  The district court also 
acted well within its discretion in its broader efforts to 
tabulate the parties’ historical responsibility for the 
contamination, its choice to ground that assessment in the 
expert testimony offered by the parties, and its concern with 
 
7 The Gore factors are: (i) the ability of the parties to demonstrate 
that their contribution to a discharge, release, or disposal of a hazardous 
waste can be distinguished; (ii) the amount of the hazardous waste 
involved; (iii) the degree of toxicity of the hazardous waste involved; 
(iv) the degree of involvement by the parties in the generation, 
transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of the hazardous waste; 
(v) the degree of care exercised by the parties with respect to the 
hazardous waste concerned, taking into account the characteristics of 
such hazardous waste; and (vi) the degree of cooperation by the parties 
with federal, state, or local officials to prevent any harm to public health 
or the environment.  See TDY Holdings, 885 F.3d at 1146 n.1. 

18 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
the duration of each party’s operations at the Site.8  Nor was 
it improper for the court to determine that it could not and 
need not allocate response costs to a mathematical certainty, 
and that it could apply general principles of fairness and 
equity in deciding whether to err on the side of over- or 
under-compensation.  The district court was not required to 
adopt the particular set of factors, or the weighting among 
them, for which Atlantic Richfield advocated.  Because we 
find no abuse of discretion at this step of the analysis, the 
propriety of the district court’s allocation decision turns on 
whether it committed clear error in its allocation of Atlantic 
Richfield’s responsibility.  See TDY Holdings, 885 F.3d 
at 1146–47. 
We conclude that the district court did not clearly err in 
its factual findings supporting its allocation decision.  The 
district court, in a ninety-five page order, made extensive 
findings about the historical use and contamination of the 
Site by Asarco and Atlantic Richfield.  It described in detail 
each party’s operations at the Site; their respective uses and 
releases of arsenic, to the extent knowable from the historical 
records; their efforts, and failures, to prevent environmental 
contamination; and their interactions with the government 
concerning accountability and remediation.  Although the 
district court’s discussion of the nexus between its factual 
findings and the Gore factors could have been clearer at 
times, the court’s findings and overarching analysis were 
 
8 We are not persuaded by Atlantic Richfield’s argument that the 
comparative duration of the parties’ operations is “irrelevant” to an 
appropriate allocation.  The number of years a polluter operates can be 
tied to the amount of pollution it generates and its overall responsibility 
for contamination.  Atlantic Richfield contends that other factors would 
be superior, but that does not render the district court’s approach to be 
an abuse of discretion. 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
19 
 
sufficiently robust that we do not find reversible error on that 
basis here. 
The first Gore factor inquires into the ability of the 
parties to demonstrate that their contribution to a discharge, 
release, or disposal of a hazardous waste can be 
distinguished.  Id. at 1146 n.1.  The district court explained 
that the “sparse historical record” complicated the task of 
distinguishing the parties’ contributions, noting a lack of 
clarity as to “the precise nature and amount of pollutants” 
historically emitted by each operator.  It noted that the 
deficiencies in the record were partially attributable to 
Atlantic Richfield’s longstanding denial of responsibility for 
contamination at the Site.  Nonetheless, the court found that 
the record generally “revealed enough information to 
understand the history of operations . . . at the Site,” coupled 
with the aid of expert testimony, such that it could make a 
rough assessment of the parties’ respective contributions. 
The second and third Gore factors ask how much 
hazardous waste was involved, as well as the degree of 
toxicity of that waste.  Id.  The fourth Gore factor considers 
the degree of involvement by the parties in the generation, 
transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of the 
hazardous waste.  Id.  To this end, the district court made 
detailed findings about the historical operations of Asarco 
and Atlantic Richfield, including the manners in which each 
used and released arsenic at the Site.  It recognized, as do 
both parties, that “the majority of the groundwater 
contamination METG is remediating at the Site was caused 
by Asarco’s operations.”  But the court noted that both 
parties used vast quantities of arsenic-laden materials in their 
everyday operations and generated substantial amounts of 
arsenic-laden byproducts.  Although the court could not 
quantify all of Atlantic Richfield’s past releases, given the 

20 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
large gaps in the historical record, it noted that Atlantic 
Richfield released so much toxic fly ash and coal dust that it 
received complaints from the City of Helena.  The court 
likewise made findings as to the relative toxicity of arsenic 
in the various materials used by Asarco and Atlantic 
Richfield, to the extent those toxicities could be ascertained. 
The fifth Gore factor assesses the degree of care 
exercised by the parties with respect to the hazardous waste 
concerned.  Id.  The district court reviewed the precautions 
taken by both Asarco and Atlantic Richfield to protect 
against environmental contamination, as well as the failures 
of certain preventive measures taken by each party—such as 
leakages in the protective infrastructure and the careless 
handling of contaminated wash-down water.  The court 
further noted Asarco’s adoption of relatively intensive 
preventive measures toward the later years of its operation, 
including replacing Thornock Lake with a massive steel 
holding tank, as well as broader remediation efforts 
beginning in the 1990s. 
The sixth Gore factor evaluates the degree of cooperation 
by the parties with federal, state, or local officials to prevent 
any harm to public health or the environment.  Id.  As to this 
factor, the court explained that Atlantic Richfield had 
repeatedly evaded responsibility for any environmental 
contamination at the Site, flagrantly misled the EPA 
regarding its releases at the Site, and made ongoing 
misrepresentations throughout the course of the litigation.  
Atlantic 
Richfield 
contends 
the 
district 
court’s 
misrepresentation findings are “irrelevant” to its appeal of 
the twenty-five percent allocation because the court 
separately awarded a $1 million uncertainty premium 
pursuant to the sixth Gore factor.  However, it is not 
inconsistent for the district court to award an uncertainty 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
21 
 
premium based on the egregiousness of its findings as to the 
sixth Gore factor, and also separately to consider Atlantic 
Richfield’s non-cooperation when weighing the equities in 
the context of reaching its baseline allocation. 
In addition to its core factual findings, the district court 
considered the expert testimony proffered by the parties in 
arriving at its allocation.  Asarco’s expert proposed three 
alternative liability allocation strategies, which apportioned 
Atlantic Richfield’s responsibility at twenty-five percent to 
forty-one percent depending on the method.  Atlantic 
Richfield’s expert focused on challenging Atlantic 
Richfield’s liability altogether and opined that Atlantic 
Richfield should have zero responsibility for the Site 
cleanup.  The court reviewed the testimony of the parties’ 
dueling experts, discussing the merits and shortcomings of 
each.  The court found the opinions of Asarco’s expert, Andy 
Davis, “to be compelling and persuasive,” adding that he 
“was the only witness at trial who was qualified by 
education, training, experience, and the work he performed 
in this case, to quantify the contribution of arsenic made by 
Anaconda’s 45 years of operation at the Site.”  By contrast, 
the court found that Atlantic Richfield’s expert, Brian 
Hansen, focused too much on Asarco’s operations and tried 
so hard to minimize Anaconda’s role that he failed to provide 
a useful quantification of its contamination.  The court 
further found that Hansen failed to account for several 
material historical documents, and “le[ft] the majority of 
expert Davis’s opinions largely unchallenged.” 
The district court favored Davis’s most conservative 
allocation, which ascribed twenty-five percent of the total 
liability to Atlantic Richfield.  It rejected Asarco’s higher 
proposed allocations, as well as Atlantic Richfield’s 

22 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
proposed zero percent allocation.9  Davis’s conservative 
allocation, i.e., “Strategy III,” assigned equal responsibility 
to Asarco and Atlantic Richfield for discharges into the north 
plume and the Thornock Pond and Lake area plume, adjusted 
for the respective time periods the parties operated in each 
region, and then adjusted for the square footage of the 
contaminated groundwater in each area.  The court found 
this strategy appealing, because it accounted for the parties’ 
differential time periods of ownership—notably, a factor that 
favored Atlantic Richfield due to its comparatively short-
lived operations at the Site.  Particularly given the failure of 
Atlantic Richfield’s expert to proffer a well-supported, 
sensible alternative allocation, the district court reasonably 
resorted to the most conservative of Asarco’s proposed 
allocations.10 
The district court acknowledged that all the allocation 
strategies presented were imperfect and explained that it 
would compensate for the mathematical uncertainties by 
considering “such equitable factors as the court determines 
are appropriate,” per the framework of CERCLA.  42 U.S.C. 
 
9 The district court also rejected three alternative allocations 
suggested by Atlantic Richfield in its proposed amended post-trial 
findings of fact and conclusions of law.  Atlantic Richfield contests the 
court’s cursory rejection of those alternatives.  However, Atlantic 
Richfield devoted nearly all of its energy at trial—and all of its expert 
testimony—to challenging any attribution of responsibility to Atlantic 
Richfield, so it provided minimal support for these alternative 
allocations.  Although the court’s rejection was terse, it was sufficient 
under the circumstances—especially when coupled with the district 
court’s explanation of the allocation it did choose. 
10 Moreover, that allocation aligned with the overarching theme of 
the court’s factual findings, i.e., that Asarco bore responsibility for the 
vast majority of the Site’s contamination, but Atlantic Richfield was 
more than a de minimis polluter. 

 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
23 
 
§ 9613(f)(1).  Ultimately, the court used the Gore factors—
as well as the general equitable principle that the 
cooperating, settling party should receive the benefit of the 
doubt—to support its decision to adopt an allocation that 
erred on the side of over-compensation rather than under-
compensation for the contamination emitted by Atlantic 
Richfield.  Because these equitable factors weighed in 
Asarco’s favor, and the court found Davis’s “Strategy III” to 
be the most compelling of the proffered allocation strategies, 
it decided to stand by a twenty-five percent allocation of 
responsibility to Atlantic Richfield.  Because the district 
court assessed the record evidence and underlying equities 
with sufficient rigor and care, we affirm.11 
Finally, Atlantic Richfield argues that the district court’s 
decision provided an insufficient articulation of the 
reasoning behind its allocation.  We conclude that the court 
below made a sufficient record to inform our review.  The 
court’s ninety-five page decision is expansive and detailed, 
and it thoughtfully grapples with a challenging case.  A 
decision need not be articulated with perfection to meet the 
standards we have set forth in our case law.  See Traxler v. 
Multnomah County, 596 F.3d 1007, 1016 (9th Cir. 2016) 
(explaining that the district court must articulate its 
reasoning in a manner sufficient to permit meaningful 
appellate review, and remanding where the record “d[id] not 
 
11 Atlantic Richfield further argues that a twenty-five percent 
allocation exceeds its realistic share of the Site contamination.  But the 
district court was not required to allocate response costs precisely along 
the lines of the parties’ emissions.  Because consideration of “equitable 
factors” is permissible, it is immaterial if the court did not apportion 
response costs perfectly in line with emissions—especially where no 
party has been able to quantify those emissions with precision. 

24 
ASARCO V. ATLANTIC RICHFIELD 
 
permit [the court] to infer a rationale”).  For these reasons, 
we affirm the district court’s allocation decision. 
Each party shall bear its own costs. 
AFFIRMED IN PART, VACATED IN PART, AND 
REMANDED. 
