DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA 
FOURTH DISTRICT 
 
BUYER’S CHOICE AUTO SALES, LLC, 
Appellant/Cross-Appellee, 
 
v. 
 
PALM BEACH MOTORS, LLC, 
Appellee/Cross-Appellant. 
 
No. 4D2023-0147 
 
[July 17, 2024] 
 
Appeal and cross-appeal from the Circuit Court for the Fifteenth 
Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County; Samantha Schosberg Feuer, Judge; 
L.T. Case No. 502020CA012552XXXXMB. 
 
Kevin F. Richardson of Clyatt & Richardson, P.A., West Palm Beach, for 
appellant/cross-appellee. 
 
Mark Tinker of Cole, Scott & Kissane, P.A., Tampa, and Lissette 
Gonzalez, of Cole, Scott & Kissane, P.A., Miami, for appellee/cross-
appellant. 
 
FORST, J. 
 
Buyer’s Choice Auto Sales, LLC (“Landlord”) appeals the trial court’s 
final judgment entered in Palm Beach Motors, LLC’s (“Tenant”) favor 
because Landlord failed to install fencing around the premises where 
Tenant leased and operated its used car lot business.  Landlord promised 
to install fencing when Tenant renewed its commercial property lease (“the 
Lease”).  However, when Landlord did not build the fence, Tenant 
terminated the Lease, stopped paying rent, and sued for misrepresentation 
and breach of contract. 
 
Following a bench trial, the trial court determined Landlord 
fraudulently and negligently induced Tenant to renew the Lease because 
Landlord had no intent of installing the fence and Landlord breached the 
Lease by failing to timely install the fence.  The trial court permitted Tenant 
to terminate the Lease without penalty, ordered Landlord to refund the 
rental payments that Tenant paid during the pre-termination occupancy 
period, and excused Tenant’s nonpayment of rent during the post-
termination occupancy period. 

 
 
On appeal, Landlord has conceded that Tenant could terminate the 
Lease due to Landlord’s failure to install fencing.  But Landlord challenges 
the trial court’s decision to return all pre-termination rental payments to 
Tenant and excuse Tenant from paying any rent during the post-
termination occupancy period.  We agree that Landlord breached the Lease 
by failing to timely build the promised fence.  However, the lack of fencing 
did not render the leased premises wholly untenantable under section 
83.201, Florida Statutes (2020)—the rent withholding statute—and thus, 
Landlord was entitled to receive rent from Tenant for both the pre-
termination and post-termination occupancy periods.  We therefore 
reverse the trial court with respect to the rent payment issue.  
 
Additionally, Tenant ratified the Lease and benefitted by continuing to 
operate its business without fencing during the post-termination 
occupancy period.  As a result, Tenant is subjected to the burdens that 
the Lease imposed.  Accordingly, we remand for the trial court to address 
recovery of property taxes and cleanup expenses and return of Tenant’s 
security deposit.  We affirm on all other issues raised by Landlord in its 
appeal and by Tenant in its cross-appeal not addressed herein. 
 
Background 
 
For several years, Tenant rented the leased premises from Landlord to 
operate Tenant’s used car lot business.  As the existing commercial lease 
agreement was approaching renewal, Landlord and Tenant discussed 
installing fencing around the leased premises.  Tenant wanted fencing 
installed, which was “an absolute requirement,” because Tenant’s 
business was falling victim to theft and vandalism.  Despite Landlord’s 
initial reluctance to install fencing, Landlord ultimately agreed and 
handwrote the following provision onto the Lease, which the parties then 
signed: 
 
Landlord will pay to install a fence around the property at a 
cost of market value.  With a minimum of six bids.  
Simultaneously [T]enant shall provide and install landscaping 
as per the plan submitted to Lake Worth Beach. 
 
Following the Lease renewal, both Landlord and Tenant contacted 
fencing contractors to receive bids.  Tenant retained a landscaper to clear 
vegetation from the premises in preparation for fence installation. 
 
Landlord and Tenant regularly communicated via text message 
regarding fence installation status, but no fence was ever installed.  During 
one text message exchange, Landlord had expressed readiness to install 
the fence.  Yet not only was Landlord not ready, but by the time Landlord 

 
sent this text message, Landlord had not even applied for a fencing permit.  
During another communication, which included Landlord’s counsel, 
Tenant was informed that the fence would be “started this week,” but 
Landlord had still not applied for the required fencing permit. 
 
At no point within written communications between the parties or 
between their counsels did Tenant (1) declare the premises to be “wholly 
untenantable” due to lack of fencing; (2) specify that Landlord had twenty 
days to install the fence; and/or (3) express Tenant’s intent to withhold 
future rent until the fencing was in place—all statutory elements required 
to withhold rent pursuant to section 83.201, Florida Statutes (2020), the 
statute governing nonresidential tenancies.  Nor does the Lease reference 
this statute or Tenant’s right to withhold rent.  In fact, prior to the renewal, 
Tenant’s used car lot business operated for several years out of the 
unfenced leased premises. 
 
Nearly a year after the renewed Lease commenced (the pre-termination 
period), Tenant sued Landlord for fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent 
misrepresentation, and breach of contract.  Tenant sought to have the 
Lease “deemed void and enforceable” by alleging that Landlord 
fraudulently induced Tenant to enter the Lease and negligently 
misrepresented an intent to install fencing when Landlord had no intent 
of doing so.  The Lease’s “Remedies” section permits a non-defaulting party 
to terminate and cancel the Lease in an “Event of Default,” defined as 
“failure of either party to perform any other covenant, condition, 
agreement or provision contained herein within fifteen (15) days after 
receipt by that party of written notice of such failure . . . .”   
 
When Tenant filed the underlying suit, Tenant was current on its rental 
payments under the Lease—paying Landlord a total of $87,862.50 during 
the pre-termination occupancy period.  However, starting the following 
month, Tenant submitted no additional rental payments and withheld rent 
during the post-termination occupancy period.  Consequently, Landlord 
counterclaimed for unpaid rent and other relief. 
 
Both parties sought damages for their claims.  Tenant’s breach claim 
sought vandalism and theft damages to its vehicle inventory stemming 
from Landlord’s failure to install fencing.  The trial court denied this 
request, 
finding 
that 
Tenant 
presented 
“speculative” 
evidence.  
Nevertheless, the trial court relied on the Lease’s “Remedies” section to 
determine that Landlord’s failure to install fencing breached the Lease and 
Tenant had the right to terminate the Lease without penalty. 
 
Tenant also sought return of the total $87,862.50 rent which it had 
paid during the pre-termination occupancy period.  The trial court 
awarded this $87,862.50 to Tenant with the explanation that, because 

 
“[t]he [Landlord]’s breach preceded [Tenant]’s nonpayment of rent, 
therefore [Tenant]’s nonpayment d[id] not constitute a breach.”   
 
The trial court also determined that Tenant was legally entitled to 
withhold rent, finding that Tenant had complied with both the Lease’s and 
section 83.201’s requirements.  Specifically, the trial court found that 
“[Tenant] notified [Landlord], in writing (of the breach[)]”; “[Landlord]’s 
breach rendered the premises untenantable due to security risks, threats 
of vandalism, theft, and damage”; and “Florida law allows a party to 
withhold rent until the landlord fulfills their obligations under the lease.”  
To support the rent withholding conclusion, the final judgment cited the 
Lease, a text message between Tenant and Landlord, and an official notice 
authored by Tenant’s counsel.  
 
Landlord’s counterclaim sought compensation for unpaid rent, real 
estate taxes, and cleanup fees, and Landlord presented evidence of these 
expenditures at trial.  The Lease specified that Tenant is responsible for 
payment of property taxes and keeping the exterior fronts, sidewalks, and 
rear of the leased premises “in a neat and orderly condition” and “free from 
debris and rubbish.”  Ultimately the trial court concluded that Landlord 
could not recover any damages under the Lease because of Landlord’s 
fraudulent and negligent inducement of Tenant into the Lease and the 
subsequent breach of lease.  This appeal and cross-appeal timely follow. 
 
Analysis 
 
A trial court’s factual findings must be supported by competent 
substantial evidence, but its legal findings are reviewed de novo.  See 
Greenberg v. Bekins of S. Fla., 337 So. 3d 372, 375 (Fla. 4th DCA 2022).  
To the extent facts are undisputed, the application of legal principles to 
those facts is reviewed de novo.  See Allstate Fire & Cas. Ins. Co. v. Castro, 
351 So. 3d 127, 130 (Fla. 1st DCA 2022). 
 
A. Despite Landlord’s Breach and Fraudulent and Negligent 
Inducement, Tenant Ratified the Lease 
 
From the outset, we affirm the trial court’s holding that Landlord 
fraudulently and negligently induced Tenant into the Lease.  On appeal, 
Landlord relies on the “independent tort doctrine” to challenge that 
holding.  However, this argument was not raised below outside of 
Landlord’s motion for rehearing.  An argument raised for the first time in 
a motion for rehearing will not preserve the argument for appellate review.  
See Best v. Educ. Affiliates, Inc., 82 So. 3d 143, 146 (Fla. 4th DCA 2012).   
 

 
Notwithstanding the fraudulent and negligent inducement finding, 
“fraudulent inducement renders a contract voidable, not void.”  Mazzoni 
Farms, Inc. v. E.I. DuPont De Nemours & Co., 761 So. 2d 306, 313 (Fla. 
2000).  A party’s election to sue for damages on a contract, even one 
procured by fraud, ratifies the contract and “ensures that a party who 
‘accepts the proceeds and benefits of a contract’ remains subject to ‘the 
burdens the contract places upon him.’”  See id. (quoting Fineberg v. Kline, 
542 So. 2d 1002, 1004 (Fla. 3d DCA 1988)); see also Mac-Gray Servs., Inc. 
v. DeGeorge, 913 So. 2d 630, 634 (Fla. 4th DCA 2005). 
 
Here, even though Tenant sued to terminate the Lease, Tenant also 
sued Landlord for breach of contract damages stemming from Landlord’s 
failure to install fencing.  Tenant nevertheless accepted the benefits that 
the leased premises provided to Tenant’s used car lot business during the 
pre-termination and post-termination occupancy periods.  We find these 
facts support Tenant’s ratification of the Lease and thus, Tenant cannot 
simultaneously avoid the Lease’s burdens while accepting the Lease’s 
benefits.  See Mazzoni, 761 So. 2d at 313; see also Dist. Bd. of Trs. v. 
Morgan, 890 So. 2d 1155, 1160 (Fla. 5th DCA 2005) (commenting that 
because a party ratified a contract that the other party procured through 
fraud, “[the ratifying party] cannot be heard to complain because the jury 
agreed and found that the contract was enforceable by both parties”). 
 
B. Because the Leased Premises was not “Untenantable” and 
Tenant did not Satisfy § 83.201’s Requirements, Tenant Remained 
Obligated to Pay Rent During the Entire Period it Occupied the 
Property 
 
When the lease is silent on the procedure to be followed to 
effect repair or maintenance and the payment of rent relating 
thereto, yet affirmatively and expressly places the obligation 
for same upon the landlord, and the landlord has failed or 
refused to do so, rendering the leased premises wholly 
untenantable, the tenant may withhold rent after notice to the 
landlord.  The tenant shall serve the landlord, in the manner 
prescribed by s. 83.20(3), with a written notice declaring the 
premises to be wholly untenantable, giving the landlord at least 
20 days to make the specifically described repair or 
maintenance, and stating that the tenant will withhold the rent 
for the next rental period and thereafter until the repair or 
maintenance has been performed. 
 
§ 83.201, Fla. Stat. (2020) (emphasis added).  
 

 
Here, the record evidence did not demonstrate that the absence of 
fencing “render[ed] the leased premises wholly untenantable.”  Tenant, 
even amidst security concerns, operated its used car lot business on the 
leased premises for nineteen months following the Lease renewal.  Before 
renewal, Tenant had operated its business on the unfenced leased 
premises for several years.  See Cruise.com v. Eller Drive Props., Inc., 813 
So. 2d 254, 255 (Fla. 4th DCA 2002) (commenting that the rental premises 
were not rendered wholly untenantable because the commercial tenant’s 
employees continued to work on the premises, and thus, the tenant could 
not meet the statutory criteria to withhold rent); Masser v. London 
Operating Co., 145 So. 79, 83 (Fla. 1932) (“The mere failure, however, of 
the landlord to make repairs, the need of which does not render the 
premises untenantable, will not warrant an abandonment of the premises 
or relieve the tenant from liability for rent.” (emphasis added)). 
 
Additionally, despite the trial court’s finding that Tenant “met the 
requisite [written notice] elements” under the rent withholding statute, we 
are unable to find any specific correspondence within this record whereby 
Tenant: (1) declared the leased premises to be “wholly untenantable”; (2) 
provided Landlord with at least twenty days from the untenantability 
declaration to install fencing; and (3) expressed Tenant’s intent to withhold 
future rent until the fencing was installed.  See § 83.201, Fla. Stat. (2020).  
Nor has Tenant directed us to any correspondence within the record that 
complies with section 83.201’s or section 83.20(3)’s requirements.   
 
Therefore, the trial court erred when it determined that Tenant was 
entitled to withhold rent because its factual findings are not supported by 
competent substantial evidence.  See Cruise.com, 813 So. 2d at 255. 
 
A general principle of law provides that “upon possession by a lessee of 
premises to which a covenant to improve or repair has not been fulfilled 
on the part of the lessor, the defect is generally waived and rent under the 
lease is due.”  See Yanks v. Truly Nolen, Inc., 341 So. 2d 829, 831 (Fla. 3d 
DCA 1977); City of Miami Beach v. Ellis, 279 So. 2d 335, 338 (Fla. 3d DCA 
1973) (“[T]he lessee continuing in possession following the breach of 
covenant to repair a portion of the p[re]mises was not relieved of his 
obligation to continue to pay the rent as stipulated in the lease.”).  This 
principle has held true even in situations when a trial court rescinded a 
lease agreement.  See Yanks, 341 So. 2d at 831–32 (despite the tenant’s 
payment of rent being conditioned upon the landlord’s completion of 
improvements, the tenant was “not entitled to occupy the premises free of 
charge”). 
 
Here, after the renewed Lease commenced, Tenant enjoyed the benefits 
which the leased premises provided for nineteen months, including 

 
operating Tenant’s used car lot business, earning income, and suffering 
only “speculative” damages purportedly due to no fencing.1  See Morris Inv. 
P’ship v. Figueroa, 698 So. 2d 288, 289–90 (Fla. 3d DCA 1997) (leased 
premises benefitted the tenant by providing space for the tenant to operate 
his automobile repair shop);  AVVA-BC, LLC v. Amiel, 25 So. 3d 7, 11 (Fla. 
3d DCA 2009) (leased premises benefitted the tenant by providing space 
for the tenant to conduct business without interference for seven months). 
 
The trial court returning $87,862.50 in rental payments to Tenant and 
excusing Tenant’s obligation to pay rent during the post-termination 
occupancy period deprived Landlord of any rent during the renewed Lease 
period.  This was error and runs afoul of the referenced general principle 
that “rent under the lease is due” if a landlord breaches a repair obligation 
yet the tenant remains in possession of the leased premises.  See Yanks, 
341 So. 2d at 831; Ellis, 279 So. 2d at 338; Masser, 145 So. at 83. 
 
Accordingly, we hold that Landlord is legally entitled to retain the rental 
payments that Tenant paid during the pre-termination occupancy period 
(January 2020 through November 30, 2020) and receive rent for the post-
termination occupancy period (December 1, 2020 through July 9, 2021). 
 
C. On Remand, the Trial Court Must Address the Issues of 
Payment of Property Taxes, Cleanup Expenses, and the Return of All 
or Part of Tenant’s Security Deposit 
 
In addition to unpaid rent, Landlord presented evidence of property 
taxes and cleanup expenses which Landlord had incurred, neither of 
which the trial court appears to have considered because of the trial 
court’s fraudulent and negligent inducement and breach findings.  Tenant 
may be responsible for these expenses under the Lease.  The trial court 
erred in categorically barring Landlord from recovering these expenses 
given that Tenant ratified the Lease.  See Mac-Gray, 913 So. 2d at 634; 
Morgan, 890 So. 2d at 1160.  In addressing Landlord’s cleanup expenses 
claim, the trial court must determine what portion, if any, of Tenant’s 
security deposit should be applied to cleanup expenses and what portion 
of the deposit should be returned to Tenant. 
 
Conclusion 
 
The trial court improperly determined that Tenant was entitled to 
remain in the tenantable leased premises for nineteen months essentially 
rent-free, which is contrary to established law, and failed to consider 
 
1 Tenant did not cross-appeal or otherwise challenge the trial court’s 
determination that Tenant presented only “speculative” evidence concerning its 
vehicle inventory damages. 

 
Landlord’s presented evidence of unreimbursed property taxes and 
cleanup expenses and return of Tenant’s security deposit.  We reverse and 
remand for the trial court to award Landlord rent for the period that 
Tenant occupied the leased premises (January 1, 2020 through July 9, 
2021) and to reassess and calculate recovery of property taxes and cleanup 
expenses and return of Tenant’s security deposit. 
 
Affirmed in part; reversed and remanded in part with instructions. 
 
KLINGENSMITH, C.J., and CIKLIN, J., concur. 
 
*            *            * 
 
Not final until disposition of timely filed motion for rehearing. 
