[Cite as CLE Venture Fund, L.P. v Coventry Partners, L.L.C., 2025-Ohio-2451.] 
 
COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO 
 
EIGHTH APPELLATE DISTRICT 
COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA 
 
CLE VENTURE FUND L.P., 
: 
 
 
Plaintiff-Appellee, 
: 
 
 
 
No.  114383 
 
v. 
: 
 
  
COVENTRY  PARTNERS LLC  
: 
ET AL., 
 
Defendants-Appellants. 
: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY AND OPINION 
 
 
 
JUDGMENT:   AFFIRMED 
RELEASED AND JOURNALIZED:  July 10, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Appeal from the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas 
Case No. CV-21-952010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appearances: 
 
Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP, William A. Doyle, Julie A. 
Crocker, and Allison R. McFarland, for appellee.   
 
Law Office of John R. Christie, LLC, and John R. Christie,  
for appellants.   
 
 
EMANUELLA D. GROVES, J.: 
 
 
Defendants-appellants Coventry Courts LLC (“Coventry I”), Coventry 
Court LLC (“Coventry II”), and John Crigler (“Crigler”) (collectively, the 
“Appellants”) appeal the trial court’s decision determining a property’s retrospective 

 
 
value in relation to an award for damages.  For the reasons that follow, we affirm the 
decision of the trial court. 
Factual and Procedural History 
 
 In November 2015, Coventry I and Coventry II borrowed $1,600,000 
from CLE Venture Fund, L.P. (“Appellee”) to finance a property development at 
9410 Hough Street in Cleveland as well as two nearby vacant parcels on Crawford 
and East 93rd Street (collectively, the “Property”).  The loan was secured by a 
promissory note dated November 4, 2015, for the full amount.  It was also secured 
by a mortgage on the property between Coventry I and Appellee.  Coventry II and 
Crigler executed a separate guarantee for all of Coventry I’s indebtedness.  The entire 
balance, including accrued interest, was due and payable by November 4, 2016, or 
May 4, 2017, if Coventry I and II extended the maturity date. 
 Coventry I and II extended the maturity date but ultimately defaulted 
on the loan.  Additionally, Coventry II and Crigler failed to pay the entire balance 
after the default, thereby defaulting on their obligation as guarantors.  The parties 
subsequently entered into a forbearance agreement, which established that Appellee 
would not pursue its rights under the previous agreements as long as Appellants, 
among other things, paid all amounts due by September 5, 2017.  Simultaneously, 
the parties entered into a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure agreement.  Pursuant to that 
agreement, a deed transferring the Property to Appellee was placed in escrow during 
the forbearance period and was to be turned over to Appellee if Appellants failed to 
comply with the forbearance agreement.  In addition to other terms, the parties also 

 
 
agreed that Appellants’ indebtedness under the loan continued after the “closing,” 
which was defined as “the recordation of the deed referenced in the escrow 
agreement,” in the event of default.   
 Appellants subsequently failed to make payment by the forbearance 
deadline.  On September 15, 2017, Appellee filed suit against Appellants in Cuyahoga 
C.P. No. CV 17-885989 (“CV 17-885989”).  Subsequently, Appellee obtained the 
deed to the Property and recorded it on March 27, 2018.  Appellee voluntarily 
dismissed the case in August 2019.  On June 16, 2021, Appellee sold the property to 
a third-party buyer for $1,548,000.  Nevertheless, Appellee calculated that 
Appellants still owed almost $2.5 million after sale of the Property, including default 
interest and collection costs.  Appellee filed the instant action, Cuyahoga C.P. No. 
CV 21-952020, on August 23, 2021, alleging breach of the note and guaranty against 
the Appellants and requesting $2,446,775.94 in damages, plus suitable attorney 
fees. 
 
Both parties filed for summary judgment in July 2022.  The trial court 
granted Appellee’s motion with respect to liability noting: 
(1) [Appellants] are in material breach of the loan documents, as 
[appellants] failed to pay amounts due and owing to [Appellee] prior to 
the expiration of the forbearance period on 09/05/2017. 
(2) As a matter of contract interpretation, the court finds that pursuant 
to § 4 of the deed-in-lieu of foreclosure agreement, as soon as 
[Appellee] exercised its rights under the deed-in-lieu by taking title to 
the property on 03/27/2018, the fair market value of the property at 
the time of such transfer needed to be recognized, applied, and credited 
towards the outstanding indebtedness of the [Appellants] at the time 
of such transfer.  See deed-in-lieu of foreclosure agreement, § 4 (“as of 

 
 
the closing, lender shall credit the indebtedness owing under the loan 
documents in amount equal to the sale value or funds received for the 
property, minus any closing costs of the lender”). 
(3) “As of the closing” is the operative language of this agreement. As 
[Appellants] point out, no language in the deed in lieu of foreclosure 
agreement requires the [Appellee] to sell or otherwise liquidate the 
property.  Indeed, § 6 of the deed in lieu of foreclosure agreement gives 
the lender the immediate right to see/transfer the property for its own 
account. § 6 does not impose an obligation upon the [Appellee] to 
subsequently liquidate the property and then credit the sales proceeds 
of the property, at the time of sale, to [Appellants’] preexisting 
indebtedness. 
(4) Thus, when [Appellee]/lender sold the property to a third-party 
buyer on 06/16/2021, recouping $1,548,000.00 in sales proceeds, 
these proceeds were for the [Appellee]/lenders “own account” and were 
intended to lessen any possible deficiency remaining on amounts owed 
under the loan documents post-closing on 03/27/2018. 
(5) Accordingly, as stated previously by the court in its 1/28/2019 
Journal Entry in case no. CV-17-885989, a genuine issue of material 
fact still exists, as to the issue of damages only. 
 The trial court denied Appellants’ motion for summary judgment 
finding that Appellee’s claims were not barred by res judicata as there was no final 
judgment in CV-17-885989.  Additionally, the court found that Appellants’ 
argument that the transfer of the property resolved the debt lacked merit because 
the parties’ agreements stated the debt survived the transfer.   
 
The case was continued for trial, solely to determine the retrospective 
value of the Property on the date of transfer, March 27, 2018.  The value of the 
Property would offset the amount Appellants owed on the debt. 

 
 
 The trial commenced in December 2024.  Appellee called Robert 
Vodinelic (“Vodinelic”) as their expert witness.  He worked with a colleague, 
Katherine Boro, (“Boro”), to prepare the expert report.   
 Vodinelic testified that he, in collaboration with Boro, provided an 
expert opinion on the retrospective market value of the Property as of March 27, 
2018.  Vodinelic identified the three parcels of the Property and noted that two were 
vacant lots and one had an abandoned “shell” apartment building.  To his 
knowledge, the building had been vacant for ten years or more and showed signs of 
deterioration and neglect, with broken and boarded windows and boarded doors.  
The building was also subject to a Department of Housing and Urban Development 
(“HUD”) restriction.  Vodinelic testified that a HUD restriction would cap rent at a 
certain level.  Such a restriction, Vodinelic testified, could limit the desirability of an 
asset because it limited the amount of income an owner could receive. 
 Vodinelic testified that there are three methodologies used to 
appraise properties: the cost approach, the sales comparison approach, and the 
income capitalization approach.  Vodinelic testified that he used the sales 
comparison approach in this case.  He did not use the cost approach because with 
an older asset like the one in question, there were a number of subjective variables, 
e.g., determining depreciation and factoring in deferred maintenance, i.e., repairs 
necessary to rehabilitate the building, which made it difficult to determine a reliable 
value.  With respect to the income capitalization method, Vodinelic testified that 
approach is typically used when the asset is functional.  With an abandoned 

 
 
building, he would need to factor in the costs to make the property functional and 
then, once it is functional, determine how long it would take to lease units.  Those 
estimates would be challenging, especially for a property that had not been in 
operation for a decade or more. 
 Utilizing the sales comparison approach, Vodinelic testified that he 
and Boro identified properties similar to the Property, considering and adjusting for 
differences in the age, condition, size, and other relevant factors to determine a 
valuation for the three lots.  Ultimately, Vodinelic testified that the retrospective 
value of the Property was $1,310,000.  Finally, Appellee’s counsel established that 
Vodinelic was unaware that the HUD restriction had been lifted.  Vodinelic was 
aware that the HUD restriction was placed in a 2008 deed and that a HUD 
restriction typically remains for 20 years but was unaware the HUD restriction was 
not included in the deed when Appellee sold the Property in 2021.  During this 
testimony, Appellee showed Vodinelic the deed for the 2021 sale, which was 
identified and marked as Exhibit C.  At the end of the trial, Appellants objected to 
the admission of Exhibit C and asked that any testimony related to the exhibit be 
stricken from the record.  The trial court did not admit the exhibit but refused to 
strike the testimony.   
 During cross-examination, Appellants questioned Vodinelic about 
his participation in the appraisal process, focusing on the work he did versus the 
work Boro did.  Initially, Appellants suggested that Vodinelic did not write the 
report, noting that his role was “more as a supervisor, as a proofreader, and making 

 
 
sure you were getting your client’s goals met.”  In response, Vodinelic added that he 
worked as a collaborator, noting that all of those roles go into a “big melting pot.”  
Further, Vodinelic denied creating a report designed to achieve a perceived goal of 
lowering the valuation.  During a later question, Appellants characterized Boro as 
the author of the report.  Appellee objected arguing that the testimony did not 
establish that Boro was the sole author of the report.  In response, Vodinelic 
testified: 
We collaborated on it together.  She may have typed the words.  Or 
when it comes to the analysis, we worked on the analysis together.  
We’re talking about the challenges of the property, the challenges of the 
market, the approach to value we’re going to be using.   
So even if she’s the one who typed it, it’s not like she was working in a 
vacuum and I only saw the appraisal before it was completed. 
  The trial court overruled the objection after additional cross-
examination of the witness.  During Vodinelic’s testimony, Appellants did not object 
to the admission of his testimony nor challenge the admission of the expert report.  
Furthermore, contrary to Appellants’ assertion at oral argument, they did not move 
to strike Vodinelic’s testimony in its entirety.  They only moved to strike any 
testimony related to the 2021 deed, Exhibit C. 
 Appellants called Donald Durrah (“Durrah”) as their expert witness.  
Durrah testified in detail about his methodology and his familiarity with the 
northeast Ohio market.  Durrah opined that knowledge of the region was essential 
to proper appraisal.  Durrah used the sales comparison and the income 
capitalization methods to arrive at a valuation.  However, Durrah was unaware that 

 
 
there was a HUD restriction on the property and did not factor that information into 
his calculations.  Durrah valued the Property at $2,030,000 by using both valuation 
methods, giving the valuations a weight in terms of viability, and calculating a 
weighted average. 
 In its ruling, the trial court adopted Appellee’s valuation and rejected 
Appellants’ valuation finding that “[t]he Ohio Supreme Court has repeatedly held 
that when a property is encumbered by HUD or other governmental restrictions on 
land use, it should be valued as a low-income housing development, and the 
restrictions must be taken into account.”1   
 However, the trial court noted that even if it were not precluded from 
considering Appellants’ expert report, it would find that the income capitalization 
approach to valuation was an improper methodology for the Property because it was 
too speculative.  Further, comparing Appellee’s sales comparison analysis to 
Appellants’, the trial court found Appellee’s expert opinion more persuasive and 
reliable.  In its final order, the trial court found that the Property’s value was 
$1,030,000 as of March 27, 2018, and ordered Appellee to submit a proposed 
judgment entry outlining the sums it was entitled to under the loan since March 27, 
2018, less $1,030,000. 
 
1 Citing Notestine Manor, Inc. v. Logan Cty. Bd. of Revision, 152 Ohio St.3d 439; 
Columbus City Schools Bd. of Edn. v. Franklin Cty. Bd. of Revision, 151 Ohio St.3d 12, 
¶ 16, citing Woda Ivy Glen Ltd. Partnership v. Fayette Cty. Bd. of Revision, 121 Ohio St.3d 
175. 

 
 
 On June 14, 2024, the trial court issued a judgment entry addressing 
damages.  Preliminarily, the trial court corrected a scrivener’s error regarding the 
value of the Property, noting that the actual sum should have been $1,310,000 and 
not $1,030,000, as stated in its trial entry.  Next, the trial court explained its 
calculation of damages.  After considering all the relevant factors, the trial court 
found the Appellants jointly and severally liable in the amount of $1,735,579.45 plus 
interest at the default rate until paid in full and attorney fees, which would be 
determined at a separate hearing. 
 On July 15, 2024, Appellants filed a notice of appeal.  This court 
dismissed the appeal, finding that the award of attorney fees was still outstanding 
and the order was not final and appealable.  Further, this court noted that the order 
did not contain language that there was no just cause for delay pursuant to 
Civ.R. 54(B), which could have permitted appellate consideration, assuming the 
existence of final order, despite the remaining issues before the trial court.  On 
August 13, 2024, Appellee’s attorney filed a notice withdrawing the request for 
attorney fees.  The trial court issued a subsequent journal entry incorporating its 
previous order and noting that Appellee was no longer requesting attorney fees. 
 Appellants appeal and assign the following errors for our review. 
Assignment of Error No. 1 
 
The trial court erred when it allowed an expert who had not authored a 
report to testify. 
 
 

 
 
Assignment of Error No. 2 
 
The trial court erred when [it] decided the surrender value on the 
testimony of an expert who had not viewed the property. 
Assignment of Error No. 3 
 
The trial court erred when [it] decided the surrender value on the 
testimony of an expert who was not aware that the HUD restriction had 
been lifted. 
Assignment of Error No. 4 
 
The trial court erred when it allowed and relied upon testimony from 
an expert who did not prepare the report upon which his opinions were 
based. 
Law and Analysis 
 
 Appellants argue that the trial court’s decision was against the 
manifest weight of the evidence because Vodinelic did not author the report, he did 
not visit the Property before signing off on the report, and his testimony was 
presented in violation of Evid.R. 703.  Appellants also take issue with any 
adjustments or factors Vodinelic used to determine valuation when comparing other 
properties.  Appellants opine that any ruling based on “these suspect opinions” is 
against the manifest weight of the evidence.  We are mindful, however, that in a 
bench trial, there is a presumption that the trial court only considered “evidence that 
was reliable, relevant and competent in rendering its decision unless it affirmatively 
appears to the contrary.”  Shaw Steel, Inc. v. Ronfeldt Mfg., L.L.C., 2016-Ohio-1117, 
¶ 32 (8th Dist.), citing Sonis v. Rasner, 2015-Ohio-3028, ¶ 70 (8th Dist.), citing State 
v. Pleban, 2011-Ohio-3254, ¶ 45 (9th Dist.).  

 
 
 Moreover, Appellee points out that Vodinelic testified extensively 
regarding his participation in the appraisal process.  Regardless, Appellee notes that 
Appellants failed to object to Vodinelic’s testimony and the admission of his expert 
report.  Therefore, Appellee argues that Appellants were required to raise and prove 
plain error to prevail.  Additionally, Appellee argues that Appellants’ brief does not 
comply with App.R. 16(A) and, therefore, this court should dismiss the appeal.  
There is merit to Appellee’s contentions. 
 An appellant’s brief “shall” contain 
[a]n argument containing the contentions of the appellant with respect 
to each assignment of error presented for review and the reasons in 
support of the contentions, with citations to the authorities, statutes, 
and parts of the record on which appellant relies. The argument may 
be preceded by a summary. 
App.R. 16(A)(7). 
 Appellants have raised four assignments of error but failed to address 
each separately as required under App.R. 16(A)(7).  This court may “disregard an 
assignment of error for review if the party raising it ‘fails to argue the assignment of 
error separately in the brief as required under App.R. 16(A).’” Lamb v. 
Reynoldsburg Civil Serv. Comm., 2021-Ohio-2322, ¶ 17 (10th Dist.) quoting App.R. 
12(A)(2).   
 Further, Appellants fail to cite legal authority for their argument 
regarding the expert witness.  Other than Evid.R. 703, Appellants have cited no legal 
authority for the proposition that Appellee’s expert testimony was improperly 
admitted because he merely supervised and did not author the report.  Nonetheless, 

 
 
the record reflects that Vodinelic testified that he supervised and collaborated with 
Boro at all steps of the appraisal.  The trial court is presumed to know the law and, 
absent evidence to the contrary, is presumed to have appropriately considered the 
evidence before it.  In its ruling, the trial court found Vodinelic’s testimony and 
expert report relevant and admissible.  Appellants have failed to cite the record or 
any case law to establish that the trial court acted inappropriately. 
 Additionally, Appellants failed to object at the trial court level and 
failed to raise a plain error argument in this appeal.  When a party fails to raise an 
objection before the trial court, they waive that issue on appeal absent a claim of 
plain error.  Linder v. Ohio Dept. of Aging, 2022-Ohio-177, ¶ 15 (1st Dist.).   Further, 
we need not address an issue when the appellant fails to timely raise plain error.  
Nationstar Mortg. L.L.C. v. Jessie, 2021-Ohio-439, ¶ 21 (8th Dist.).  Further, “[a]n 
appellate court may disregard an assignment of error pursuant to App.R. 12(A)(2) if 
an appellant fails to cite to any legal authority in support of an argument as required 
by App.R. 16(A)(7).”  Strauss v. Strauss, 2011-Ohio-3831, ¶ 72 (8th Dist.). 
 Finally, Appellants argue that Durrah’s valuation was superior to 
Vodinelic’s.  However, they fail to address the trial court’s finding that Ohio Supreme 
Court precedent prevented it from considering Durrah’s valuation because he failed 
to address the HUD restrictions.  Further, Appellants challenge Appellee’s expert 
opinion and testimony because Vodinelic was unaware that the HUD restrictions 
were lifted.  Notably, they failed to explain how the lifting of the HUD restriction in 
2021 would affect a retrospective valuation for the Property in 2018, when the HUD 

 
 
restriction was presumably still in place.  The uncontradicted testimony from 
Vodinelic noted that the 2008 deed to the property held the restriction and that 
HUD restrictions typically last 20 years.  An appellate court is not required to search 
the record for evidence in support of an appellant’s argument nor is it required to 
search for supportive law.  Mayfair Vill. Condo. Owners Ass’n. v. Grynko, 2013-
Ohio-2100, ¶ 6 (8th Dist.), citing Nob Hill E. Condo. Assn. v. Grundstein, 2011-
Ohio-2552, ¶ 11 (8th Dist.), and Strauss at ¶ 72. 
 Based on the foregoing, Appellants’ failures to separately address the 
assignments of error and cite to relevant legal authority, prevents this court from 
determining the existence of reversible error.  Accordingly, we overrule Appellants’ 
assignments of error. 
 Judgment affirmed. 
It is ordered that appellee recover from appellants costs herein taxed. 
The court finds there were reasonable grounds for this appeal. 
It is ordered that a special mandate issue out of this court directing the 
common pleas court to carry this judgment into execution. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
A certified copy of this entry shall constitute the mandate pursuant to Rule 27 
of the Rules of Appellate Procedure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____ 
EMANUELLA D. GROVES, JUDGE 
 
EILEEN A. GALLAGHER, A.J., and 
ANITA LASTER MAYS, J., CONCUR 
 
 
