 
I N  T H E  
Indiana Supreme Court 
Supreme Court Case No. 24S-PL-184 
EdgeRock Development, LLC, ZPS Westfield, LLC, 
and First Bank Richmond, 
Appellants/Defendants, 
–v– 
C.H. Garmong & Son, Inc., Signworks, Inc.,  
and Fox Contractors Corp., 
Appellees/Plaintiffs. 
Argued: September 5, 2024 | Decided: June 3, 2025 
Appeal from the Hamilton Superior Court 5 
No. 29D05-1912-PL-11500 
The Honorable David K. Najjar, Judge 
On Petition to Transfer from the Indiana Court of Appeals 
No. 22A-PL-1968 
Opinion by Justice Molter 
Chief Justice Rush and Justices Massa, Slaughter, and Goff concur. 
 
FILED
C L E R K
Indiana Supreme Court
Court of Appeals
and Tax Court
Jun 03 2025, 2:16 pm

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 2 of 41 
Molter, Justice. 
EdgeRock Development, LLC transformed five undeveloped lots into 
the Trails of Westfield—a planned unit development in Westfield, 
Indiana, comprising retail and residential projects. It still owns two of the 
lots; it sold two lots to ZPS Westfield, LLC; and it sold one lot to a 
nonparty. EdgeRock contracted with C.H. Garmong & Son, Inc. and Fox 
Contractors Corp. to develop all five lots.  
When EdgeRock first fell behind in its payments to Garmong, Garmong 
recorded construction liens that EdgeRock satisfied by obtaining a loan 
from First Bank Richmond, which the bank secured with a mortgage on 
EdgeRock’s lots. Then, when EdgeRock fell behind again, Garmong and 
Fox each recorded construction liens on all five lots in the development. 
And the liens were redundant: Each lien stated a cumulative debt 
covering the contractor’s work on all five lots, not just a debt for the work 
benefiting the owner of the lot to which the lien attached. That meant the 
contractors were using multiple properties with different owners to secure 
the same debt.  
Recording the liens didn’t prompt payment that time. So the 
contractors sued EdgeRock for money damages on breach of contract 
claims and sued the other property owners, including ZPS, to foreclose 
the construction liens that secured the outstanding debts. Following a 
bench trial, the trial court awarded the contractors most of the relief they 
sought. But the Court of Appeals concluded the construction liens were 
overstated because they were not limited to the debts for the 
improvements directly benefiting the properties to which the liens 
attached. And it reversed the portion of the judgment foreclosing the 
construction liens.  
We granted transfer to answer questions of first impression related to: 
(1) the validity and scope of the contractors’ construction liens, and (2) the 
priority between the construction liens and First Bank’s mortgage lien on 
EdgeRock’s property. In short, we conclude that a construction lien 
secures only the debt for improvements directly benefiting the property to 
which the lien attaches. So the contractors can foreclose the liens on each 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 3 of 41 
property to recover only those amounts, not amounts for work to improve 
a different owner’s property.  
We also conclude that First Bank’s mortgage lien is senior to the 
construction liens for the amount the bank loaned to satisfy Garmong’s 
prior construction lien. But the mortgage lien is junior for the remaining 
amounts, including the amount the bank loaned EdgeRock to pay off a 
prior mortgage held by the project’s investors.     
Facts and Procedural History 
I. 
Trails of Westfield Development 
EdgeRock undertook to commercially develop seventeen acres of 
property on the southeast corner of State Road 32 and Oak Ridge Road in 
Westfield, Indiana. The property began as one parcel, and then EdgeRock 
subdivided it into five lots, which the parties refer to as Lots 1 through 5. 
The project was to build a mixed use, planned unit development known 
as the Trails of Westfield, with Lot 4 zoned for multi-family apartments 
and the rest zoned for retail businesses. This is how the property appeared 
before it was developed: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 4 of 41 
At that point, the land had no water or sanitary service, it had homes 
on it that had to be demolished, and there was limited road access and 
quality. The Anna Kendall Drain and stream ran through where 175th 
Street was going to be built, and all five lots were in floodplains or 
floodways. Thus, significant infrastructure and earthmoving work, 
including moving the Anna Kendall Drain and stream, was required 
before the property could be put to commercial use. 
EdgeRock treated construction on all lots as one project with a single, 
overarching infrastructure plan executed through a web of contracts.  
EdgeRock-Garmong Contract (All Lots). EdgeRock hired C.H. 
Garmong & Son, Inc. to construct common infrastructure (including 
grading, sewer, and water) on all the lots and to construct buildings on 
Lots 1 and 2. Fox Contractors Corp. was Garmong’s infrastructure 
subcontractor for the EdgeRock-Garmong contract, enlisted to perform 
earthwork and infrastructure installation. That entailed work on all five 
lots, including utility work, earthwork on Lot 3 to raise its elevation, and 
building a retention pond on Lot 5 to collect runoff from the area.  
ZPS-EdgeRock Contract (Lots 1 and 2). ZPS Westfield, LLC bought 
undeveloped Lots 1 and 2 from EdgeRock, and the parties entered a 
development agreement requiring EdgeRock to construct retail buildings 
and common infrastructure on those lots (which EdgeRock fulfilled 
through a portion of its EdgeRock-Garmong contract). ZPS’s contract with 
EdgeRock required work only on Lots 1 and 2, and ZPS agreed to pay 
EdgeRock a total of $1,720,000, which ZPS did. After EdgeRock developed 
Lot 1, ZPS leased it to Starbucks, and after EdgeRock developed Lot 2, 
ZPS leased one portion to a Penn Station sandwich shop and another 
portion to Forum Credit Union.  
EdgeRock-Dahm Contract (Lot 3). EdgeRock sold Lot 3 to a nonparty, 
Dahm No. 49, LLC, which Dahm developed into a Crew Carwash.  
Lots 4 and 5. EdgeRock still owns Lots 4 and 5, which it intended to 
develop into apartments and mixed-use retail shops, although it has not 
yet done so.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 5 of 41 
EdgeRock-Fox Contract. EdgeRock also had a separate, direct contract 
with Fox to move the Anna Kendall Drain, to construct 175th Street 
between Lots 1–3 and Lots 4–5, and to install related infrastructure. Fox’s 
work on the 175th Street Project stretched from the southern portion of 
Lot 2 east, benefiting all lots adjoining 175th Street. The 175th Street 
Project was to be funded by Road Impact Fee Credits (“RIF Funds”) 
issued by the City of Westfield.  
This is what the area looked like after development through these 
contracts:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 
First Bank Richmond Loan 
As the project was progressing, EdgeRock stopped paying Garmong’s 
invoices, leading Garmong to record a construction lien for $2,140,722.51. 
At that point, Oak Ridge Investments, LLC owned Lots 4 and 5, and 
EdgeRock was one of the company’s members, with Birch Dalton serving 
as both companies’ manager. Oak Ridge’s investors held promissory notes 
for the lots’ purchase price, which the investors secured through a 
mortgage on the property.  
EdgeRock satisfied Garmong’s lien by borrowing $4.9 million from 
First Bank Richmond and using some of those funds to pay all of 
Garmong’s overdue invoices. But EdgeRock used most of the loan 
proceeds for its own general use or to pay the project’s investors, and it 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 6 of 41 
did not put any of the rest of the loan into the project. It used 
$2,028,443.62—most of the remaining loan proceeds—to pay Oak Ridge 
investors for satisfaction of their mortgage on Lots 4 and 5, with First Bank 
then recording its own mortgage on those lots to secure its loan (along 
with other security, including a security interest in the RIF Funds).  
III. Garmong’s and Fox’s Subsequent Construction 
Liens 
After EdgeRock satisfied Garmong’s first lien, more payment disputes 
arose between EdgeRock, Garmong, and Fox related to work under the 
EdgeRock-Garmong Contract, leading Garmong to record two liens—one 
on EdgeRock’s lots, the other on ZPS’s lots—both for the same amount 
($1,009,055.62) covering the same work. Fox recorded three liens related to 
its subcontract work for Garmong—one each on lots owned by EdgeRock, 
Dahm, and ZPS—all for the same amount ($500,053.42) for the same work. 
Later, Garmong issued a partial payment to Fox, and Garmong and Fox 
stipulated that this $500,053.42 debt was reduced to $202,623.56.  
Fox also recorded three construction liens (one each on properties 
owned by EdgeRock, Dahm, and ZPS), all in the same amount 
($1,213,228.23) for the same work on the 175th Street Project under the 
EdgeRock-Fox contract. Fox later released its liens on Dahm’s property, 
leaving the liens on EdgeRock’s and ZPS’s property remaining.  
IV. Litigation 
Garmong, and then Fox in quick succession, sued for damages and to 
foreclose the liens. First, Garmong filed a Complaint for Foreclosure of 
Mechanic’s Liens, Breach of Contract, Unjust Enrichment and Damages 
against EdgeRock, ZPS, First Bank, Fox, and Signworks (another 
subcontractor). Then EdgeRock, Fox, and ZPS counterclaimed. Fox also 
filed cross-claims against EdgeRock and ZPS, as well as a third-party 
complaint against Dahm. Fox’s claims against EdgeRock, ZPS, and Dahm 
sought money damages under several theories and to foreclose its 
construction liens (although it later dismissed its claims against Dahm).  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 7 of 41 
EdgeRock, ZPS, Garmong, and Fox all filed summary judgment 
motions, which the trial court ruled on mid-trial. Also during the trial, the 
City of Westfield interpleaded its RIF Funds totaling $938,322.40, in which 
multiple parties claim an interest. Following an eight-day bench trial 
(spread over several months), the court issued its Findings of Fact, 
Conclusions of Law, and Judgment, which it later partially modified in an 
order on motions to correct errors. Relevant to this appeal, the court’s 
rulings were that Garmong prevailed on its breach of contract claim 
against EdgeRock for $943,042.64 (plus interest and costs); Garmong could 
foreclose its construction liens against EdgeRock’s lots for the same 
amount (plus attorney fees); Garmong could foreclose its construction 
liens against ZPS’s lots for the same amount (plus interest and costs); Fox 
prevailed on its cross-claim for breach of contract against EdgeRock in the 
amount of $1,301,531.37 (plus costs); Fox could foreclose its construction 
liens on EdgeRock’s lots for $202,623.56 under the Garmong subcontract 
and $1,166,728.23 under the EdgeRock-Fox contract (plus costs and 
attorney fees); Fox could foreclose its construction liens on ZPS’s lots for 
the same amounts (plus costs); the construction liens were senior to First 
Bank’s mortgage lien except for the loan funds used to satisfy Garmong’s 
previous lien; and EdgeRock was entitled to the RIF Funds.  
EdgeRock, ZPS, and First Bank appealed, and Fox cross-appealed.1 The 
Court of Appeals affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with 
instructions. The court held that by asserting duplicate liens on properties 
with different owners and without segregating the debts by the 
improvements attributable to each owner’s lots, Garmong and Fox 
overstated their liens, rendering them invalid. EdgeRock Dev., LLC v. C.H. 
Garmong & Son, Inc., 227 N.E.3d 907 (Ind. Ct. App. 2024). And because 
those construction liens were invalid, there was no longer a priority 
dispute with the bank’s mortgage lien. Id. at 931. The Court of Appeals 
also held that the trial court erred by awarding the RIF Funds to 
EdgeRock, instructing the trial court on remand to instead hold those 
 
1 On appeal, Signworks and ZPS settled their claims with each other.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 8 of 41 
funds pending parallel litigation in the Hamilton County Commercial 
Court, which will determine which party is entitled to the funds. Id. at 936. 
The court noted that its holdings regarding the lien foreclosures and RIF 
Funds do not disturb the trial court’s monetary, in personam judgments 
against EdgeRock on Garmong’s and Fox’s breach-of-contract claims. Id. 
at 938–39. 
Garmong and Fox then sought transfer, which we granted, 235 N.E.3d 
135 (Ind. 2024), thus vacating the opinion of the Court of Appeals, Ind. 
Appellate Rule 58(A).2 
Standard of Review 
The parties appeal the trial court’s summary judgment rulings, its final 
judgment with findings of fact and conclusions of law, and its rulings on 
motions to correct error. We review the trial court’s summary judgment 
rulings de novo. Gierek v. Anonymous 1, 250 N.E.3d 378, 384 (Ind. 2025). 
We apply a two-tiered standard of review to the findings of fact and 
conclusions of law—“first determining whether the evidence supports the 
findings and, if so, whether the findings support the judgment.” Town of 
Linden v. Birge, 204 N.E.3d 229, 233 (Ind. 2023). We apply a clearly 
erroneous standard to the trial court’s findings of fact and a de novo 
standard to the trial court’s conclusions of law. Id. at 234. And we review 
rulings on motions to correct errors for an abuse of discretion. Expert Pool 
Builders, LLC v. Vangundy, 224 N.E.3d 309, 312 (Ind. 2024). 
 
2 The Indiana Bankers Association filed an amicus brief in support of First Bank. Indiana 
Constructors, Inc., the Indiana Builders Association, and Associated General Contractors of 
Indiana, Inc. filed an amicus brief in support of Garmong and Fox. The number of briefs in 
this case is extraordinary; the associated record is voluminous; and we granted the parties’ 
joint motion for an extended oral argument due to the number and complexity of the issues 
on appeal. We commend all parties and amici for ensuring the quality of their arguments and 
submissions matched the quantity.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 9 of 41 
Discussion and Decision 
When a contractor supplies labor or materials to improve real property, 
Indiana provides a statutory remedy to secure the resulting debt—a lien 
on the improved property, which when enforced may compel the 
property’s sale to pay the debt. Ind. Code § 32-28-3-1 et seq.; Mann v. 
Schnarr, 95 N.E.2d 138, 141 (Ind. 1950). These liens—commonly referred to 
as “mechanic’s liens” or “construction liens”—augment rather than 
replace claims like breach of contract, unjust enrichment, quantum meruit, 
and account stated. They are “simply a method of collecting a debt or a 
means of receiving payment,” and they are “not the claim upon which the 
lien is founded.” 53 Am. Jur. 2d Mechanics’ Liens § 1 (2025).  
While these liens were unknown at common law and in equity, they 
trace their lineage at least as far back as France’s Napoleonic Code. Moore-
Mansfield Constr. Co. v. Indianapolis, New Castle & Toledo Ry. Co., 101 N.E. 
296, 301 (Ind. 1913). They were first introduced in the United States as a 
tool for developing the new capital city of Washington, D.C., and Indiana 
enacted its first mechanic’s lien statute in 1834. Id.; see generally Note, 
Mechanics Liens in Indiana—The Extent of the Property and Property Interests 
Subject to the Lien, 36 Ind. L. J. 526, 529 (1961). “The historical origin and 
purpose of mechanic’s lien statutes was to make a property owner an 
involuntary guarantor of payments for the reasonable value of 
improvements made to real estate by the physical labor or materials 
furnished by laborers or materialmen.” Premier Invs. v. Suites of Am., Inc., 
644 N.E.2d 124, 130 (Ind. 1994). This prevents “the inequity of a property 
owner enjoying the benefits of the labor and materials furnished by others 
without recompense.” Id. 
Garmong and Fox contend they are entitled to foreclose their 
construction liens on EdgeRock’s and ZPS’s properties because they 
improved those properties through work and materials for which they 
have not been paid. EdgeRock and ZPS both acknowledge the contractors 
had statutory lien rights for unpaid work, but they argue the liens are 
invalid here because, they contend, the liens were grossly overstated and 
untimely. If, on the other hand, the contractors can foreclose their liens, 
then First Bank argues any property sale proceeds must first go to repay 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 10 of 41 
its $4.9 million loan because, either as a matter of statutory lien priority or 
equitable subrogation, the bank’s mortgage lien is senior to the 
contractors’ construction liens. 
In Section I below, we analyze the scope and validity of Garmong’s and 
Fox’s construction liens, concluding that the liens are valid for 
improvements directly benefiting the properties to which they attach, but 
not for improvements directly benefiting another owner’s property. Then, 
in Section II, we analyze the lien priority between the construction liens 
and the mortgage lien, concluding that the mortgage lien is senior as 
security for the loan funds that went to satisfying Garmong’s previous 
lien, but junior to the construction liens for the remaining funds.  
I. 
Scope and Validity of the Construction Liens 
The trial court foreclosed Garmong’s and Fox’s construction liens 
against ZPS’s and EdgeRock’s lots. On appeal, EdgeRock and ZPS pursue 
a three-prong challenge to those liens. First, EdgeRock and ZPS argue the 
liens are invalid because the statute did not permit Garmong and Fox to 
secure their debts in duplicate (sometimes triplicate) by filing redundant 
liens against multiple properties with different owners, all covering the 
same labor and materials. Second, EdgeRock and ZPS argue the liens are 
invalid because they were recorded too late. And third, they assert various 
challenges to the underlying debts that the liens secure. 
While we agree with EdgeRock and ZPS that each lien can secure no 
more than the debt for the improvements to the property attached to the 
lien, we otherwise affirm the trial court’s judgment as to the validity of the 
liens and the debts they secure.  
A. 
Lien Duplication 
Garmong and Fox contend they could assert duplicate liens on 
properties with different owners because all their work was connected by 
contracts through a single overarching development plan. That is, 
Garmong contends it was proper to assert a lien against EdgeRock’s Lots 4 
and 5 for the unpaid balance of $943,042.64, and then to assert another lien 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 11 of 41 
for the same amount covering the same work against ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2. 
Fox takes the same position: It was proper for Fox to assert a lien against 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 for the unpaid balance of $1,303,531.37, and then 
to assert another lien for the same amount covering the same work against 
ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2. Garmong and Fox’s position is based on the view that 
“when there are multiple lots with multiple owners, the structure of the 
contract is key and lien rights follow the contract even without common 
ownership.” C.H. Garmong & Son, Inc.’s and Fox Contractors Corp.’s 
Joint Pet. to Trans. at 15.  
EdgeRock and ZPS disagree. They contend that when contractors work 
on properties with different owners, the contractors must allocate the 
debts between properties, or at least between property owners, even when 
all the work stems from a single contract. Here, that would mean 
Garmong’s and Fox’s liens against EdgeRock’s property could cover only 
improvements to that property, and their liens against ZPS’s property 
could cover only improvements to that property. 
Four reasons lead us to agree with EdgeRock and ZPS that duplicate 
liens are improper, which we discuss next. After that, we explain, as 
Garmong and Fox argue, the remedy for the lien overstatement is to 
reduce the liens, not, as EdgeRock and ZPS argue, to invalidate them in 
their entirety.  
1. 
Statutory Language 
The first reason we agree with EdgeRock and ZPS is that the statutory 
language ties liens to property ownership, with no mention of contracts. 
The statute says the lien attaches to (1) the structure or improvement itself 
(for example, a building), and (2) “the interest of the owner of the lot or 
parcel of land” on which the structure or improvement stands or to which 
the structure or improvement is connected. I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b) (emphasis 
added). “The entire land upon which the building, erection, or other 
improvement is situated, including the part of the land not occupied by 
the building, erection, or improvement, is subject to a lien to the extent of 
the right, title, and interest of the owner for whose immediate use or 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 12 of 41 
benefit the labor was done or material furnished.” I.C. § 32-28-3-2(a) 
(emphasis added).  
Despite these references to property ownership, Garmong and Fox 
argue the statute links their lien rights to the contract compelling their 
labor and materials, not to the ownership interest in the improved 
property. For support, they point to other statutory language saying that 
liens cover improvements “connected” to property. I.C. § 32-28-3-
1(b)(2)(B). To say that something is “connected” to property generally 
means that it is “joined or linked together” with the property. Connected, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/
connected [https://perma.cc/JER5-B4R9] (last visited June 3, 2025). And 
Garmong and Fox view a contract to improve multiple lots as joining or 
linking each improvement to all the lots subject to the contract.  
But this argument fails because the statutory context makes clear that is 
not what the legislature meant by “connected,” and the legislature was 
instead referring to a physical connection. See Hyland v. Rochelle, 100 N.E. 
842, 849 (Ind. 1913) (explaining that the meaning of statutory terms “is to 
be collected from the context” (quotations omitted)). The statutory term 
“connected” is part of the provision establishing the scope of a lien:  
A person described in subsection (a) may have a lien separately 
or jointly: 
(1) upon the house, mill, manufactory, or other building, 
bridge, reservoir, system of waterworks, or other structure, 
sidewalk, walk, stile, well, drain, drainage ditch, sewer, 
cistern, or earth: 
(A) that the person erected, altered, repaired, moved, or 
removed; or 
(B) for which the person furnished materials or 
machinery of any description; and 
(2) on the interest of the owner of the lot or parcel of land: 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 13 of 41 
(A) on which the structure or improvement stands; or 
(B) with which the structure or improvement is 
connected; 
to the extent of the value of any labor done or the material 
furnished, or both, including any use of the leased equipment 
and tools. 
I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b) (emphasis added).  
Subparts (2)(A) and (2)(B) above use different prepositional phrases so 
that together they authorize liens for all categories of structures and 
improvements listed in Subpart (1). Subpart (2)(A) authorizes a lien for the 
property “on which the structure or improvement stands.” I.C. § 32-28-3-
1(b)(2)(A). Those structures and improvements “on” the property would 
include a “house, mill, manufactory, or other building” listed in 
Subpart (1). Those same examples are also listed earlier in the statute 
when establishing which vendors and which work qualify for a lien. 
I.C. § 32-28-3-1(a)(1)(A) (allowing a lien for the “erection, alteration, 
repair, or removal of . . . a house, mill, manufactory, or other building”).  
But some structures or improvements do not necessarily stand “on” the 
property, or at least not “on” the portion of property subject to the lien. So 
Subpart (2)(B) authorizes a lien for property “with which the structure or 
improvement is connected,” I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b)(2)(B), even if the structure 
or improvement is not “on” the property, I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b)(2)(A). Again, 
Subpart (1) gives examples of improvements that are physically connected 
to a property: a “bridge, reservoir, system of waterworks, or other 
structure, sidewalk, walk, stile, well, drain, drainage ditch, sewer, [or a] 
cistern.” I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b)(1). And again, that list mirrors the examples 
earlier in the statute establishing which vendors and which work qualify 
for a lien. I.C. § 32-28-3-1(a) (allowing a lien for the “erection, alteration, 
repair, or removal of . . . a bridge, reservoir, system of waterworks, or 
other structure,” as well as “the construction, alteration, repair, or removal 
of a walk or sidewalk located on the land or bordering the land, a stile, a 
well, a drain, a drainage ditch, a sewer, or a cistern”). All these examples 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 14 of 41 
either tie portions of the land together or link the property with other 
property.  
From the statutory context, then, we can see the term “connected” 
denotes a physical connection, linking portions of the property together or 
linking the property to other property. Nothing in the statute suggests the 
term means something else, like a connection to the property through a 
contract, as Garmong and Fox propose.  
2. 
Case Law 
The case law confirms our interpretation, rejecting Garmong and Fox’s 
view that a lien’s scope depends on whether all the work stems from a 
single contract. See Shilling v. Templeton, 66 Ind. 585, 587 (1879) (“It is the 
law and not the contract that gives the mechanic his lien.”). For example, 
in Saint Joseph’s College v. Morrison, Inc., the Court of Appeals described as 
“an erroneous conclusion of law” the view that “a valid mechanic’s lien 
cannot embrace work done under two separate contracts.” 302 N.E.2d 865, 
871 (Ind. Ct. App. 1973). The court explained that what has generally 
mattered throughout the cases is not the number of contracts but whether 
all the work subject to the lien (a) occurred “on one plot of real estate” and 
(b) was “pursuant to a common plan of improvement” for that property. 
Id. at 872; see also id. at 873 (recognizing that prior case law held that a joint 
lien was proper for material furnished under “two distinct contracts” 
because “all of the items were furnished for the same improvement upon 
one piece of property”). The fact that work was performed pursuant to a 
single contract may be evidence that the work was pursuant to a common 
plan of improvement, but that does not mean all the work improved the 
same plot of land, so the contract does not by itself determine whether a 
joint lien is proper.  
Garmong and Fox read the case law differently. The first category of 
cases they rely on allows “joinder of claims in cases where such joinder 
will not prejudice the rights of the property owner.” Id.  at 874. For 
example, in Premier Steel Co. v. McElwaine-Richards Co., we affirmed the 
foreclosure of McElwaine-Richards’s lien for the steam, gas, and water 
pipes it supplied to Premier Steel Company for extensive renovations 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 15 of 41 
throughout a steel plant even though the supplier didn’t separate the 
orders by the “particular mill or building” that used the pipes. 43 N.E. 876, 
877 (Ind. 1896). Our decision was based on the rule that:  
Where labor is performed or materials furnished under one 
contract upon several buildings, all situate upon one lot of land 
belonging to the contracting owner, the lien attaches to all the 
land for the whole value of the labor performed, and it is 
immaterial whether the contract specifies one sum for all work 
or separate amounts for each building. 
 Id. at 877–78 (emphasis added) (quoting Jones, Liens, § 1313).  
As later case law explained, the key takeaway from Premier Steel Co. is 
that where all the work was done on a single piece of property, there is 
“no valid public purpose in promoting multiple notices and foreclosures 
in situations where a single lien would suffice.” Saint Joseph’s Coll., 302 
N.E.2d at 874. Instead, the cases recognize “a policy of avoiding needless 
multiplicity of proceedings.” Id. But as the bolded language above reflects, 
it was critical to our holding in Premier Steel Co. that the multiple buildings 
subject to a single lien all had the same owner. If the buildings had 
different owners, then it would “prejudice the rights of the property 
owner” to include in the lien the value of improvements to another 
owner’s property. Id.  
Another case in this category that Garmong and Fox cite is West v. 
Dreher, 126 N.E. 688 (Ind. App. 1920). Dreher owned two adjoining lots, 
and he built a house on each. The plaintiffs supplied labor and materials 
for both houses and then recorded a single lien against both houses for the 
unpaid balance. The Appellate Court (now the Court of Appeals) held: 
“Where a contractor, under a single contract, has furnished materials and 
performed labor in the construction of two separate dwelling houses, one 
house on each of two contiguous lots, the labor and materials having gone 
indiscriminately into the construction of both houses,” the contractor is 
“entitled, by a single notice, to a lien on both houses and lots.” Id. at 689. 
The court reasoned that “the two houses, within the mechanics’ lien law of 
this state, are one piece of work” and therefore subject to a single lien. Id.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 16 of 41 
Again, and critically, both neighboring lots had the same owner, so 
there was no need to require separate liens. The relevance of the contract 
was just to establish that the property owner approved the improvements 
and that they were all part of a common plan. Nothing in the case 
suggests the court would have permitted a joint lien on both houses if 
they had different owners.   
The second category of cases on which Garmong and Fox rely 
recognizes that property may be subject to a lien even when the 
improvements are offsite. In Wells v. Christian, 76 N.E. 518 (Ind. 1906), a 
boiler operator hired a contractor to install steam-distribution pipes under 
a neighboring street, and the contractor sued to foreclose a lien on the 
operator’s property for the unpaid balance. We held the lien could be 
foreclosed, explaining that “[t]he mains and pipes laid down in the streets 
and elsewhere to distribute the steam among those who are to enjoy the 
beneficial use of it are clearly a part of the apparatus necessary to 
accomplish the objects for which such heat plant was erected.” Id. at 519.  
In other words, the steam pipes connected to the property “constitute a 
part of the machinery by means of which the business of supplying heat to 
others must be carried on.” Id. Because the work was “directly and 
necessarily connected with the erection of the appellee’s heating system, 
. . . it was an immaterial matter whether such work was performed upon 
the particular premises to which the labor lien primarily attached.” Id.  
Again, we affirmed the foreclosure because the lien covered the value 
of improvements benefiting the property subject to the lien; we did not 
approve a lien covering the value of improvements to someone else’s 
property who did not consent to the debt. Wells also illustrates the 
physical connection the statute requires. The steam pipes physically 
linked customers to the heating plant. So in the statutory parlance, while 
the pipes weren’t “on” the property with the heating plant, they were 
“connected” to that property. I.C. § 32-28-3-1(b)(2)(A) & (B). 
As Garmong and Fox acknowledge, “[n]o Indiana case has addressed 
these facts where work was performed under one contract on multiple lots 
with different owners” and a contractor asserted duplicate liens for all the 
work against each improved property. C.H. Garmong & Son, Inc.’s and 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 17 of 41 
Fox Contractors Corp.’s Joint Pet. to Trans. at 2. The cases to date suggest 
a joint lien cannot cover property with different owners. And allowing a 
joint lien to cover improvements to separate properties with separate 
owners where one owner did not consent to the work benefiting another’s 
property would conflict with a fundamental requirement of construction 
liens, which leads to the next reason we agree with EdgeRock and ZPS’s 
interpretation of the lien statute.  
3. 
Consent 
One lien requirement is that the property owner must have consented 
to the improvements to their property. Gill v. Pollert, 810 N.E.2d 1050, 1058 
(Ind. 2004); see generally 19 Ind. Law Encyc. Mechanics’ Liens § 18 (2025) 
(“The creation of a mechanic’s lien requires the authorization or consent of 
the property owner to the improvement in question.”). This is consistent 
with the lien’s theoretical underpinning as a tool to prevent unjust 
enrichment, a claim which also includes consent as an element. See Kohl’s 
Indiana, L.P. v. Owens, 979 N.E.2d 159, 167–68 (Ind. Ct. App. 2012) 
(“Indiana courts articulate three elements for this claim: (1) a benefit 
conferred upon another at the express or implied consent of such other 
party; (2) allowing the other party to retain the benefit without restitution 
would be unjust; and (3) the plaintiff expected payment.”); Lee & Mayfield, 
Inc. v. Lykowski House Moving Eng’rs, Inc., 489 N.E.2d 603, 608 (Ind. Ct. 
App. 1986) (“The statutory lien is equitable in nature and based upon the 
theory of unjust enrichment.”).  
For a lien, the “consent must be more than inactive or passive consent, 
and the lien claimant’s burden to prove active consent is especially 
important when the improvements are requested by someone other than 
the landowner.” Gill, 810 N.E.2d at 1059 (quotations omitted). We’ve 
acknowledged that “[t]he exact nature and content of the owner’s active 
consent in this context will vary from case to case.” Id. (quotations 
omitted). But “case law makes clear that the focus is not only on the 
degree of the owner’s active participation in the decisions and the actual 
construction.” Id. (quotations omitted). The focus is “also on how closely 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 18 of 41 
the improvements in question resemble a directly bargained-for-benefit.” 
Id. (quotations omitted).  
Allowing duplicate liens that cover work directly benefiting other 
owners’ properties would undermine this requirement. For example, a 
homeowner might expressly or impliedly consent to work connecting 
their lot to a development through a sidewalk, road, sewer, or other 
utilities. And as a result, they may be required to shoulder through a lien 
their portion of the cost of those improvements directly benefiting their 
property. But it would be quite a stretch to suggest that single homeowner 
consented to, and effectively bargained for, the development of the rest of 
the broader network of sidewalks, roads, sewers, and utilities that connect 
everyone else in the neighborhood along with their lot. See generally 53 
Am. Jur. 2d Mechanics’ Liens § 46 (2025) (“As a general rule, a mechanic’s 
lien attaches only to the estate or interest of the person who, directly or 
through an agent, creates the lien by contracting for the labor or materials, 
and accordingly only such party’s interest can be subjected to a sale to 
satisfy the lien.”).  
So each property owner must pay their own way, but that means 
paying only for the improvements they effectively consented to and 
bargained for, which takes us to our final point. 
4. 
Guarantor 
Garmong and Fox’s statutory interpretation would convert property 
owners to guarantors of other property owners’ debts. But that isn’t the 
function of a construction lien under Indiana law.  
To be sure, a lien makes “a property owner an involuntary guarantor of 
payments for the reasonable value of improvements made to real estate by 
the physical labor or materials furnished by laborers or materialmen.” 
Premier Invs. v. Suites of Am., Inc., 644 N.E.2d 124, 130 (Ind. 1994). But that 
is for improvements to the property owner’s own property, not someone 
else’s property. Again, the scope of the lien is limited to “the right, title, 
and interest of the owner for whose immediate use or benefit the labor 
was done or material furnished.” I.C. § 32-28-3-2(a).   

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 19 of 41 
“A lien cannot exist without the existence of a debt which, under the 
statute, it secures.” Mann v. Schnarr, 95 N.E.2d 138, 141 (Ind. 1950). 
Garmong and Fox already obtained a money judgment against EdgeRock 
for the money it owed them under the parties’ contract and failed to pay. 
And ZPS already paid EdgeRock for the property improvements it 
consented to. But ZPS never agreed to guarantee EdgeRock’s debts. So just 
as ZPS isn’t a guarantor of EdgeRock’s money judgment, ZPS also isn’t a 
guarantor of EdgeRock’s debts for improvements to EdgeRock’s property 
through a lien on ZPS’s property. See McGrew v. McCarty, 78 Ind. 496, 498 
(1881) (“[O]ne can no more be made to discharge the debt of another 
building than one individual debtor can be made to pay a separate claim 
owing by somebody else to the same creditor.”).  
By analogy, consider again a typical housing development. Our lien 
statute codifies a policy that a homeowner who actively consents to their 
property being improved through a connection to the neighborhood’s 
sidewalks, streets, sewer, and other utilities might be compelled to 
guarantee the debt for the costs of their connection. But it does not follow 
that the same homeowner should also shoulder the costs for 
improvements to other homeowners’ properties. It is one thing to give a 
contractor a security interest in property it has improved; it is quite 
another to make that property owner the guarantor for the debts of all the 
surrounding property owners.  
Having concluded that EdgeRock and ZPS are correct that Garmong’s 
and Fox’s duplicate liens are improper, we must turn to determining the 
remedy.  
B. 
Lien Reduction  
The trial court did not allocate the lien amounts between EdgeRock’s 
and ZPS’s properties because the court mistakenly believed each 
contractor could apply the entire debt to both property owners. EdgeRock 
and ZPS argue, and the Court of Appeals agreed, that Garmong’s and 
Fox’s overstatement of their liens renders them void. But no reported case 
in Indiana has ever held that a lien was void because the vendor 
overstated the amount owed, and this case should not be the first.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 20 of 41 
Our Court of Appeals has observed that where a party “intentionally or 
through culpable negligence” overstates the lien amount, the 
overstatement voids the whole lien. Abbey Villas Dev. Corp. v. Site 
Contractors, Inc., 716 N.E.2d 91, 100–01 (Ind. Ct. App. 1999) (quotations 
omitted). But that same authority recognizes that “a mere mistake in the 
statement will not necessarily render the whole lien void when it is 
evident that no fraud is intended, and where it has not misled the 
defendant owner to his prejudice in making his defense.” Id. (quotations 
omitted). Both sides accept these statements as accurate reflections of 
Indiana law.  
The trial court held that even if Garmong and Fox overstated the lien 
amount, the overstatement does not void their liens because the 
overstatement was based on a good faith dispute about Indiana law; it 
was an open question whether the liens tracked the contract or property 
ownership. Neither EdgeRock nor ZPS point to any basis on which we 
could conclude the trial court misapprehended the law when concluding 
that a lien is not void when an overstatement is based on a good faith legal 
dispute, nor do they point to any evidence that Garmong or Fox acted 
fraudulently.  
We therefore conclude the trial court did not clearly err by declining to 
void the liens based on overstatement. But the liens on each property still 
need to be revised to reflect the materials and services directly improving 
the property to which each lien attaches. Next, we apply that limitation to 
the three pairs of liens. 
1. 
Garmong’s Liens for Improvements Under 
the EdgeRock-Garmong Contract 
The trial court approved $943,042.64 (plus fees and interest) for 
Garmong’s duplicate liens against (a) ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2, and (b) 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5. Those liens reflect Garmong’s final two unpaid 
invoices (Invoices 6224-10 and 6224-11) for the EdgeRock-Garmong 
contract, which was a contract (a) to construct buildings on Lots 1 and 2, 
and (b) to construct common infrastructure (including grading, sewer, and 
water) for all lots.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 21 of 41 
We start with the work related to constructing buildings on ZPS’s Lots 
1 and 2. As we discussed above, the lien for those improvements can 
attach only to the property directly benefited, so the lien amounts for 
constructing buildings on ZPS’s lots can attach only to those lots, not 
EdgeRock’s lots. And for the building construction on ZPS’s lots, there is 
no dispute that ZPS approved the construction, that the construction 
directly improved ZPS’s property, and that it was therefore proper for 
Garmong to assert a lien for those improvements. As to ZPS, the dispute is 
only over which charges on Invoices 6224-10 and 6224-11 relate to 
constructing the buildings on ZPS’s lots instead of work and materials for 
common infrastructure improving other owners’ properties.   
The trial court examined the invoices and concluded that the line items 
totaling “$520,509.70 for Masonry, Metal Panels, Membrane Roofing, Ipe 
Siding, Entrances and Storefronts, Painting, Plumbing and HVAC, 
Electrical, Asphalt Paving, Fences and Gates, Landscaping, and [Change 
Order] #4” reflect work and materials that “went directly into ZPS’s 
buildings and land.” App. Vol. 2 at 153, ¶ 48. ZPS does not claim these 
charges were for work or materials that went somewhere other than to 
directly improve its Lots 1 and 2. It instead argues there is no evidentiary 
support for the trial court’s finding.  
We disagree. The only building construction under the Garmong-
EdgeRock contract was for the two buildings on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2, so it 
was reasonable for the trial court to infer that these building-related 
construction charges were for ZPS’s lots. Thus, we affirm the trial court’s 
judgment as to a lien on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 for $520,509.70.  
Beyond that, though, the evidence does not support the trial court’s 
conclusion that “the full $943,042.64 owed on invoices 6224-10 and 6224-11 
directly benefited ZPS’s property.” App. Vol. 2 at 153, ¶ 52. Just the 
opposite—Garmong’s Regional Manager, Mitch Hannum, who was 
involved in calculating the lien amount, testified that the amounts were 
not apportioned by lot, and the lien amounts include work on all five lots. 
Similarly, Garmong’s Chief Financial Officer, Michael Preyss, who 
executed the lien on Garmong’s behalf, testified he does not know the 
allocation of the lien amounts between lots.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 22 of 41 
Despite this testimony, the trial court inferred from Fox’s pay 
applications as a subcontractor that this work benefited ZPS. On appeal, 
the closest Garmong comes to justifying the attribution of these remaining 
expenses to ZPS is to say that the “bulk” of some of the categories of 
charges should be attributable to ZPS, and that other charges benefited 
ZPS in an unspecified “part.” Br. of Appellee C.H. Garmong & Sons, Inc. 
at 46. But ZPS is responsible only for those improvements it consented to 
for the direct benefit of its own property; it is not responsible for other 
amounts merely because they include an unspecified portion that directly 
benefited ZPS’s property. The lien on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 must therefore be 
reduced to $520,509.70, reflecting the building expenses to which ZPS 
consented and which directly benefited ZPS’s property.  
Because there is no finding that the remaining amount is attributable to 
improvements directly benefiting EdgeRock’s property—and the evidence 
is that the work was across all five lots—EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 are not 
subject to a construction lien for any of the $943,042.64. That said, while 
EdgeRock’s property is not subject to a construction lien for any of that 
amount, the property remains subject to a judgment lien for the entire 
amount based on Garmong’s successful breach of contract claim against 
EdgeRock. (We recognize that a judgment lien has a lower priority than a 
construction lien, though.)  
Also, ZPS already paid EdgeRock for the improvements to its property 
that are the subject of the liens against Lots 1 and 2, and it was EdgeRock 
that failed to pass along ZPS’s payment to Garmong. So to minimize the 
extent to which ZPS will otherwise pay for the same work twice, the trial 
court ordered that EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 must be sold first, and any 
sums paid to Garmong from that sale will reduce the judgment against 
ZPS in the same amount. No party has challenged that instruction on 
appeal, and we leave it undisturbed.  
The trial court also mistakenly included pre-judgment interest in its 
award to Garmong against ZPS. Garmong argues pre-judgment interest 
“is warranted if the contract terms make the claim ascertainable and the 
amount rests upon mere calculation.” Br. of Appellee C.H. Garmong & 
Son, Inc. at 52 (quoting Johnson v. Blankenship, 679 N.E.2d 505, 509 (Ind. Ct. 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 23 of 41 
App. 1997), summarily aff’d, 688 N.E.2d 1250 (Ind. 1997)). But the claim did 
not rest upon mere calculation because Garmong declined to allocate the 
charges by lot, so it was only through trial that ZPS could learn how to 
excise its debt from others’ debts for which ZPS was not a guarantor. 
See Pichon v. Am. Heritage Banco, Inc., 983 N.E.2d 589, 601 (Ind. Ct. App. 
2013) (“Damages that are the subject of a good faith dispute cannot allow 
for an award of prejudgment interest.”), trans. denied. 
In sum, although Garmong’s construction liens against EdgeRock’s Lots 
4 and 5 are invalid, its judgment liens against EdgeRock remain valid. 
Garmong’s construction liens on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 are valid only for the 
amount of $520,509.70,3 and they may be enforced only if the sale of 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 does not satisfy the debt.4  
2. 
Fox-Garmong Subcontract 
Garmong engaged Fox as a subcontractor under the EdgeRock-
Garmong contract “to provide earthmoving and common utility and 
private infrastructure work in the Project (the ‘Garmong Subcontract’).” 
App. Vol. 2 at 128, ¶ 125. The subcontract price was $1,315,000, and 
Garmong and Fox have stipulated that $202,623.56 of that amount remains 
unpaid.  
The trial court concluded that Fox could assert duplicate liens for this 
debt against both EdgeRock’s and ZPS’s properties. It found that “[t]he 
common utility and infrastructure work in the Project was phased across 
the entire Project, and Fox performed this common infrastructure and 
 
3 ZPS incorporates EdgeRock’s argument that Garmong’s liens were not timely, but the 
arguments for these charges are specific to EdgeRock’s lots. ZPS does not make a timing 
argument specific to the charges that we have concluded the trial court properly validated for 
the liens on Lots 1 and 2. We therefore do not disturb the trial court’s conclusion that 
Garmong’s liens were timely as to ZPS.  
4 We summarily affirm the holding of the Court of Appeals that the trial court did not err in 
concluding that factual disputes precluded summary judgment on EdgeRock’s claim that 
Change Order #3 was invalid because it was not approved in writing. EdgeRock Dev., LLC v. 
C.H. Garmong & Son, Inc., 227 N.E.3d 907, 931–32 (Ind. Ct. App. 2024). 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 24 of 41 
utility work in accordance with the general phasing of the Project’s 
infrastructure plans.” App. Vol. 2 at 154, ¶ 63(d). The trial court further 
found that the work “benefit[s] the entire development.” Id. ¶ 64(e). 
We affirm the trial court’s judgment for this amount as to EdgeRock but 
not ZPS. The “trial court’s judgment comes to this court clothed with a 
presumption of validity, and the appellant bears the burden of proving 
that the trial court erred.” Consumer Att’y Servs., P.A. v. State, 71 N.E.3d 
362, 364 (Ind. 2017) (quotation omitted). On appeal, EdgeRock does not 
dispute that these specific remaining charges were for infrastructure 
improvements on or connecting to its lots, that it requested these 
improvements, and that the improvements directly benefited its property.  
Instead, EdgeRock claims it was entitled to summary judgment based 
on its argument that Fox did not record its lien within the statutorily 
required ninety days. But as the trial court appropriately concluded, the 
lien was timely because “Fox last performed common utility and 
infrastructure work for the Project under the Edgerock Contract on June 3, 
2019,” which was less than ninety days before Fox recorded its lien on 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 on August 30, 2019. App. Vol. 2 at 138, ¶ 150. 
And we find no error in the trial court’s conclusion that the work fell 
within the scope of the Garmong subcontract, rather than reflecting 
merely incidental repair work as EdgeRock suggests.  
EdgeRock also argues that Garmong’s and Fox’s liens are invalid 
because Garmong expressly released “any and all claims and liens” 
against EdgeRock “by reason of labor, materials or equipment furnished 
by it in connection with” Garmong’s “installation of the water and 
sanitary mains under the contract.” Br. of Appellant EdgeRock 
Development, LLC at 62 (quoting Release of Liens, App. Vol. 5 at 142); 
see also Br. of Appellant ZPS Westfield, LLC at 57 (joining EdgeRock’s 
argument). But the parties’ briefing does not reveal what, if any, portion 
of the liens relate to the water and sanitary mains. And if any portion 
does, that would be a reason to reduce rather than invalidate the liens, as 
discussed above. The trial court therefore did not err by declining to 
invalidate the liens through summary judgment on this basis, and 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 25 of 41 
EdgeRock does not challenge the trial court’s findings and conclusions on 
this same basis.    
ZPS is in a much different position than EdgeRock, though, because it 
did not consent to the work on EdgeRock’s lots under the Garmong-Fox 
subcontract. We therefore reverse the trial court’s judgment validating 
these liens on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2.  
3. 
175th Street Project 
Lastly, the trial court approved Fox’s duplicate $1,166,728.23 liens 
against EdgeRock’s and ZPS’s properties for outstanding debts stemming 
from the 175th Street Project.5 For that project, Fox “entered into a direct 
contract with Edgerock to construct 175th Street, to provide additional 
common utility work for the Project, and to relocate the Anna Kendall 
Drain.” App. Vol. 2 at 131, ¶ 133. This work consisted of: 
• Clearing and demolition work and erosion control; 
• Excavated existing Anna Kendall Drain, placed stone base 
and then filled the area with B-Borrow; 
• Relocated and stabilized Anna Kendall Drain; 
• Installed stormwater infrastructure end along 175th Street, 
including piping and [outlet] into detention pond; 
• Excavated part of detention pond southeast of lift station; 
 
5 EdgeRock argues this lien was also untimely. The trial court concluded that the lien was 
timely because Fox’s work under this contract continued until June 3, 2019, less than ninety 
days before Fox recorded its lien on EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 on August 30, 2019. Again, we 
find no error in the trial court’s conclusion.    
 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 26 of 41 
• Installed box culvert extension on east side of Oakridge 
Road – extended existing culvert with the relocation of the 
Anna Kendall Drain; 
• Graded and prepped roadway from first 200 feet east to 
connect to Wheeler Road, and paved in front of Crew 
Carwash area; 
• Installed part of the waterline that was to continue on east to 
connect into the main at the end to complete the loop all the 
way to Wheeler Road. 
App. Vol. 2 at 132–33, ¶ 137 (letters replaced with bullet points). 
Some of the work was “actually performed on the Edgerock Real 
Estate,” and the remainder “would benefit the entire Project” because it 
“made the development of the entire Project possible,” which no party 
disputes on appeal. App. Vol. 2 at 132–33, ¶¶ 136, 138. Those findings are 
sufficient to support the trial court’s conclusion that the liens on 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 for these improvements are valid. EdgeRock 
requested all this work; the work was for infrastructure physically 
connected to EdgeRock’s lots; and all the work directly benefited 
EdgeRock’s property and its commercial enterprise, much as physically 
connecting the infrastructure to the boiler operation in Wells was 
“necessary to accomplish the objects for which” the “plant was erected.” 
76 N.E. at 519.6   
But again, it is a different story with ZPS. While these improvements 
indirectly benefited ZPS’s lots by making them amenable to development, 
ZPS never bargained for or consented to this work, and there is no 
 
6 We summarily affirm the holding of the Court of Appeals that the trial court did not err in 
granting Garmong’s summary judgment motion (and denying EdgeRock’s competing 
summary judgment motion) on EdgeRock’s claim that it was entitled to a credit for amounts 
owed under the EdgeRock-Garmong contract for work related to the 175th Street Project and 
the drain relocation. EdgeRock Dev., LLC, 227 N.E.3d at 932 (Ind. Ct. App. 2024). 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 27 of 41 
evidence that ZPS would have agreed to develop Lots 1 and 2 had it 
known it would be responsible for preparing the lots for development 
along with preparing the surrounding lots for development too. In other 
words, unlike EdgeRock, ZPS never agreed to be a guarantor of the debts 
for this work.  
Thus, for the amounts due under the EdgeRock-Fox contract, we affirm 
the trial court’s foreclosure of Fox’s liens on EdgeRock’s property but 
reverse Fox’s judgment against ZPS.  
II. 
Lien Priority 
Because Garmong’s and Fox’s lien foreclosures force the sale of 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5, we must next determine the order—the 
priority—that those sale proceeds will be applied to (a) the debts that the 
construction liens secure, and (b) the $4.9 million debt that First Bank’s 
mortgage lien secures. To recap, this is the timeline of relevant events for 
that dispute: 
March 31, 2016 
Oak Ridge Investments mortgaged Lots 4 and 5 to 
secure the purchase of the lots. 
Dec. 4, 2018 
Garmong recorded a $2,140,722.51 lien on Lots 4 
and 5. 
Feb. 25, 2019 
First Bank recorded a mortgage lien on Lots 4 
and 5 to secure its $4.9 million loan to EdgeRock 
after: (a) EdgeRock used some of the bank’s loan 
proceeds to satisfy Garmong’s December 2018 
lien; (b) EdgeRock used other of those loan 
proceeds to satisfy the Oak Ridge Investments’ 
mortgage; and (c) Oak Ridge Investments 
quitclaimed Lots 4 and 5 to EdgeRock.  
Aug. and Sept. 2019 Garmong and Fox recorded construction liens on 
Lots 4 and 5 covering work that began before First 
Bank recorded its mortgage lien. 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 28 of 41 
The parties and the trial court all agree that the bank’s mortgage lien is 
senior for the $2,140,722.51 the bank loaned EdgeRock to satisfy 
Garmong’s December 2018 construction liens, but the trial court 
concluded the construction liens were senior to the mortgage lien securing 
the remainder of the loan proceeds. 
On appeal, the bank argues its mortgage lien is senior for all the funds 
its lien secures for three reasons. First, the bank recorded its lien before 
Garmong and Fox recorded their liens. Second, even if the construction 
liens would otherwise be senior, there is a statutory exception granting 
seniority to a mortgage lien that secures construction project financing. 
And the bank claims all the funds it loaned EdgeRock qualify under this 
exception, not just the funds to satisfy Garmong’s prior lien. Third, the 
bank argues that equitable subrogation puts its mortgage lien in the same 
priority position as the previous mortgage that the bank’s loan funds 
satisfied.  
We address the bank’s three arguments in turn, ultimately agreeing 
with Garmong and Fox as to each.  
A. 
Construction lien priority is determined by the 
date work begins, not the date the lien is recorded. 
Generally, “priority in time gives a lien priority in right.” Johnson v. 
Johnson, 920 N.E.2d 253, 256 (Ind. 2010). So the bank’s first argument is 
that its mortgage lien is senior because its lien was prior in time—the bank 
recorded its lien before Garmong and Fox recorded their construction 
liens. See I.C. § 32-21-4-1(c) (providing that a mortgage lien “takes priority 
according to the time of its recording”). But that argument fails because 
while the recording date establishes the priority date for a mortgage lien, 
the recording date does not establish the priority date for a construction 
lien.  
Instead, when a lienholder records a construction lien, the priority date 
relates back to the date when the lienholder began performing labor or 
providing materials or machinery. The relevant statute provides:     

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 29 of 41 
The recorder shall record the statement and notice of intention 
to hold a lien when presented under section 3 of this chapter in 
the miscellaneous record book. The recorder shall charge a fee 
for recording the statement and notice in accordance with IC 
36-2-7-10. When the statement and notice of intention to hold a 
lien is recorded, the lien is created. The recorded lien relates 
back to the date the mechanic or other person began to 
perform the labor or furnish the materials or machinery. 
Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d), a lien created 
under this chapter has priority over a lien created after it. 
I.C. § 32-28-3-5(b) (emphasis added). Because the parties agree that 
Garmong and Fox began their work before First Bank recorded its 
mortgage lien, the trial court properly found that their construction liens 
were prior in time and therefore generally have priority over the mortgage 
lien.  
First Bank argues the trial court’s conclusion reflects a legal error 
because the bank reads the construction lien priority provision as 
establishing priority based on the date of recording—just like a mortgage 
lien—not the date the construction lienholder began performing work or 
supplying materials or machinery. As First Bank reads the statute, the lien 
is “created” when it is recorded, which establishes lien priority. I.C. § 32-
28-3-5(b). And the relation-back provision refers to the scope of the debt 
that the lien secures, allowing the lien to secure debt for work, materials, 
and machinery provided before the lien was recorded.  
But more than 150 years’ worth of cases from our Court and the Court 
of Appeals say otherwise, interpreting similar statutory relation-back 
provisions as establishing a construction lien’s priority, not just its scope. 
See 5 Tiffany Real Prop. § 1578 (3d ed. 2024) (including Indiana among the 
states where construction lien priority is established “when the person 
asserting the lien first began to furnish the labor or materials for which the 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 30 of 41 
lien is claimed”).7 And that case law mirrors how courts around the 
country interpret these sorts of relation-back provisions in lien statutes. 
See 1 Alvin L. Arnold and Myron Kove, Construction & Development 
Financing § 4:247 (3d ed. 2024) (“Mechanics liens statutes often permit the 
 
7 See also Ward v. Yarnelle, 91 N.E. 7, 14 (Ind. 1910) (stating that “where some labor is 
performed, or material is furnished prior to the execution of a mortgage, in which event, upon 
notice being filed within the statutory period, though after the mortgage is given, the lien 
reaches back of the mortgage to the time when the work is begun or the material furnished, 
and gains priority both as to the land and the building”), overruled on other grounds by Moore-
Mansfield Constr. Co. v. Indianapolis, New Castle & Toledo Ry. Co., 101 N.E. 296 (Ind. 1913); 
Jenckes v. Jenckes, 44 N.E. 632, 634 (Ind. 1896) (explaining that a mechanic’s lien’s priority was 
measured by “the time when work was begun or material furnished”), overruled on other 
grounds by Sulzer-Vogt Mach. Co. v. Rushville Water Co., 65 N.E. 583 (Ind. 1902); Fleming v. 
Bumgarner, 29 Ind. 424, 425 (1868) (“A fair construction of the law is, that the lien of a 
mechanic or material man relates to the time when the work commenced, or the materials 
began to be furnished, as to subsequent conveyances as well as to other liens.”); Wells Fargo 
Bank, N.A. v. Rieth-Riley Constr. Co., 38 N.E.3d 666, 671 (Ind. Ct. App. 2015) (explaining that 
the priority of the mechanic’s lien was measured by when “the mechanic’s work was begun or 
materials [were] furnished”); Provident Bank v. Tri-Cnty. Southside Asphalt, Inc., 804 N.E.2d 161, 
163 (Ind. Ct. App. 2004) (measuring the mechanic’s lien priority from the date when the 
lienholder “began paving the driveway”), on reh’g in part, 806 N.E.2d 802 (Ind. Ct. App. 2004); 
Greyhound Fin. Corp. v. R.L.C., Inc., 637 N.E.2d 1325, 1327 (Ind. Ct. App. 1994) (“Before a 
proper notice has been recorded, only a latent, unperfected mechanic’s lien exists. When the 
notice is recorded, the lien is perfected and its priority is determined by the date the lien 
claimant began work on the property.”); Beneficial Fin. Co. v. Wegmiller Bender Lumber Co., 402 
N.E.2d 41, 43 (Ind. Ct. App. 1980) (holding that a mechanic’s lien had priority where materials 
were furnished before the mortgage was recorded and the mechanic’s lien was recorded after 
the mortgage); Stanray Corp. v. Horizon Constr., Inc., 342 N.E.2d 645, 650 (Ind. Ct. App. 1976) 
(explaining that a mechanic’s lien has priority “where, for example, the mechanic’s earliest 
work or delivery of materials antedates recordation of the competing mortgage”); Krotz v. 
A.R. Beck Lumber Co., 73 N.E. 273, 278 (Ind. App. 1905) (explaining that a properly recorded 
mechanic’s lien “would have been effective from the time the materials were furnished, and 
would have had priority over all liens suffered or created thereafter, except the liens of other 
mechanics and materialmen, as to which there is no priority”); Zehner v. Johnston, 53 N.E. 
1080, 1082 (Ind. App. 1899) (measuring the priority of a mechanic’s lien based on “the time 
when the work for which the lien is claimed was commenced, or to when the first material for 
which the lien is claimed was furnished”). 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 31 of 41 
liens, once recorded, to relate back to an earlier time for priority 
purposes.”).8  
To support its interpretation, First Bank cites Robert Neises Construction 
Corp. v. Grand Innovations, Inc., 938 N.E.2d 1231, 1235 (Ind. Ct. App. 2010), 
which held that a bank’s mortgage lien was senior to a later-recorded 
mechanic’s lien even though the work underlying the mechanic’s lien 
predated the bank recording its mortgage lien. The Court of Appeals 
provided only a paragraph of analysis, stating in conclusory fashion that 
this statutory construction was required “to avoid an absurd result,” but 
the court did not provide any explanation of what absurd result it was 
avoiding. See id. Of course, courts cannot override the legislature’s policy 
choice based on their own view that a different policy would be better. 
See R.R. v. State, 106 N.E.3d 1037, 1042 (Ind. 2018) (explaining that the 
absurdity doctrine applies only when a contrary reading “truly is absurd, 
and not merely unwise or unsound”).  
The Court of Appeals also did not acknowledge all the prior case law 
establishing that construction lien priority relates back to when the 
lienholder began performing labor or furnishing materials or machinery 
on the encumbered property. First Bank argues that Neises pivoted from 
prior precedent because the legislature tweaked the statutory language 
after those cases were decided, changing the reference from construction 
liens “so created” by recording a notice to instead referring to a lien that 
“is created” when it “is recorded.” Br. of Appellant First Bank Richmond 
at 27–28. But Neises did not discuss any change in the statutory language, 
 
8 See also 3 Bruner & O'Connor Construction Law § 8:177 (2024) (“In many jurisdictions, the 
mechanics’ lien will relate back to an earlier time. A number of states treat the lien as taking 
priority from the time of ‘commencement’ or ‘visible commencement’ of the improvement, 
provided that the claimant records its lien within the statutorily required time after it 
completes its work on the project.”); Greene v. Thompson, 554 So. 2d 376, 379 (Ala. 1989) 
(holding that a mechanic’s lien has priority over any “encumbrances attaching after the 
commencement of the work.”); Trustees of Mortg. Tr. of Am. v. Dist. Ct. In & For Routt Cnty., 621 
P.2d 310, 312 (Colo. 1980) (explaining that “the mechanics’ lien statutes provide that an 
effective mechanic’s lien relates back in time to the ‘commencement of work’ upon the 
construction project at issue, thus gaining a preference over other liens and interests in land 
which may have been recorded prior to the actual filing of the mechanic’s lien”). 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 32 of 41 
and when the legislature recodified the statute with the tweaks First Bank 
notes, the legislature instructed that it was not altering the substance of 
the law. See I.C. § 32-16-1-5 (“[I]f the literal meaning of [the recodification] 
(including a literal application of an erroneous change to an internal 
reference) would result in a substantive change in the prior property law, 
the difference shall be construed as a typographical, spelling, or other 
clerical error”).  
We therefore do not find Neises’s reasoning persuasive. And to the 
extent Neises held that a construction lien’s priority is measured from its 
recording date rather than from the date when the lienholder began 
performing labor or furnishing materials or machinery, that holding was 
mistaken, and we disavow it.  
Because Garmong and Fox began providing their improvements before 
First Bank recorded its mortgage lien, the construction liens generally 
have priority over the mortgage lien, with one important exception we 
discuss next.  
B. 
First Bank’s mortgage lien is senior for the money 
it loaned to satisfy Garmong’s prior lien, but not 
for the remainder of the loan funds. 
Even where a construction lien would otherwise be senior to an earlier 
recorded mortgage lien, there is a statutory exception for a mortgage lien 
that secures project financing: “The mortgage of a lender has priority over 
all liens created under this chapter that are recorded after the date the 
mortgage was recorded, to the extent of the funds actually owed to the 
lender for the specific project to which the lien rights relate.” I.C. § 32-
28-3-5(d) (emphasis added); see also Harold McComb & Son, Inc. v. JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, NA, 892 N.E.2d 1255, 1262 (Ind. Ct. App. 2008) (explaining that 
“our legislature adopted Indiana Code section 32–28–3–5(d) to establish 
that where the funds from the loan secured by the mortgage are for the 
project which gave rise to the mechanic’s lien the mortgage lien has 
priority over the mechanic’s liens recorded after the mortgage” (cleaned 
up)). 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 33 of 41 
First Bank loaned EdgeRock $4.9 million, and it is undisputed that the 
bank recorded its mortgage lien before Garmong and Fox recorded the 
construction liens in dispute. EdgeRock used $2,140,722.51 of the loan 
funds to satisfy Garmong’s prior construction lien; $2,028,443.62 to pay 
partners in Oak Ridge Investors; $300,000 for First Bank loan charges; 
$15,000 for EdgeRock’s attorney fees; $9,269 for title charges; $5,000 for an 
insurance premium; and $165 for recording charges. EdgeRock retained 
the remaining $401,399.87 for its general use. The $2,028,443.62 EdgeRock 
paid to Oak Ridge’s investors led to the release of the prior mortgage on 
Lots 4 and 5, allowing EdgeRock to then mortgage the lots as security 
(along with other security) for First Bank’s $4.9 million loan.  
The parties and the trial court all agree that the statutory exception for 
project financing makes First Bank’s mortgage lien senior to the 
construction liens for the $2,140,722.51 that First Bank loaned EdgeRock to 
pay off Garmong’s prior construction lien. That is because the funds to 
satisfy the prior lien were used “for the specific project to which” the 
construction lien rights relate. I.C. § 32-28-3-5(d). But the trial court 
concluded that was the only portion of the mortgage lien that was senior 
to the construction liens because none of the remaining “loan proceeds 
went to future development.” App. Vol. 2 at 144, ¶ 178.  
First Bank argues its entire mortgage lien is senior to the construction 
liens, and, if not, at least all but the $401,399.87 for EdgeRock’s general use 
should be senior. The bank contends the trial court made a legal error by 
“inappropriately interpret[ing] the statutory phrase ‘for the specific 
project’ to mean only loan proceeds earmarked for construction of 
improvements, and not loan proceeds to acquire or satisfy preexisting 
liens against the project’s land.” Br. of Appellant First Bank Richmond at 
21 (citing I.C. § 32-28-3-5(d)). First Bank also worries this will “have a 
chilling effect on refinance transactions.” Id.   
We read the trial court’s order differently. As we read the order, the 
trial court did not conclude that land acquisition costs or refinancing can 
never be for the specific project to which construction lien rights relate; it 
just found that in this case the payment to the partners in Oak Ridge 
Investors was not for land acquisition or refinancing to support the 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 34 of 41 
project. Instead, the court found that this portion of the loan was simply a 
mechanism for the investors to retrieve their capital without paying the 
contractors who had improved the properties composing the project in 
which the investors had invested.  
As the trial court explained, the bank’s loan was a “half after-the-fact 
construction loan for an in-progress project” (the portion for which the 
parties agree the bank’s lien is senior) and “half a mechanism to allow 
Edgerock to move money from one related LLC to another” for uses that 
had nothing to do with the project (the portion for which the trial court 
held the bank’s lien is junior). Id. at 170–71, ¶¶ 137, 139. And the trial court 
had many reasons for that finding.  
One reason was that the description on the commercial loan application 
was that the funds were for “non-purchase money collateral.” App. Vol. 2 
at 141, ¶ 165. Left unchecked were boxes for “construction and permanent 
loans, revolving draw construction line of credit,” and “draw construction 
loan.” Id. Also left unchecked was a box where “the loan proceeds will be 
for the purchase of collateral” along with a description left blank for 
“purchase-money collateral.” Id. While EdgeRock used some of the loan 
funds to satisfy Garmong’s prior lien, “none of the [First Bank] loan 
proceeds were used to fund any construction or development costs 
associated with Fox’s construction of the Project’s new public 
infrastructure, i.e., the relocation of the Anna Kendall Drain and the 
construction of 175th Street.” Id. at 142–43, ¶ 173. There was also “no 
purchase agreement between Oak Ridge Investors and Edgerock for the 
transfer of Lots 4 and 5.” Id. at 143. The “Oak Ridge Investors quitclaimed 
the real estate to Edgerock” with the deed noting that there was no 
consideration and that it was “a transfer between related LLCs with a 
common principal for internal company purposes.” Id. at 143–44, ¶ 176.    
Put simply, “[n]one of [the bank’s] loan proceeds went to future 
development,” id. at 144, ¶ 178, and the “acquisition of Lots 4 and 5 by 
Edgerock was unnecessary to complete this specific project,” id. at 171, 
¶ 143. “The Bank knew that the lien it was paying off was for work 
already completed” and that “it was not funding a traditional construction 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 35 of 41 
loan where the bank provides acquisition funding that allows the project 
to proceed.” Id. at 144, ¶ 180.   
First Bank does not identify any findings that are unsupported by 
evidence, and these findings support the trial court’s conclusion that the 
loan funds beyond those to pay Garmong’s prior lien were not for the 
specific project related to the lien.9 The bank itself says that its loan 
enabled EdgeRock to “reorganize the finances[]” of “the whole 
development company.” Reply Br. of Appellant First Bank Richmond 
at 36. But the statute covers refinancing only for the project related to the 
liens. 
We therefore affirm the trial court’s judgment that the bank’s mortgage 
lien is senior for the $2,140,722.51 of the loan funds EdgeRock used to 
satisfy Garmong’s prior construction lien and junior to the construction 
liens for the remainder of the loan funds. 
C. 
The trial court did not clearly err by declining to 
apply equitable subrogation. 
Lastly, First Bank argues that equitable subrogation allows the bank to 
assume the senior position of the Oak Ridge investors’ earlier acquisition 
mortgage that First Bank paid off. As First Bank sees it, the contractors’ 
construction lien was already junior to the investors’ mortgage lien that 
secured the purchase of Lots 4 and 5 before the contractors began working 
on the lots, so the contractors are no worse off with First Bank assuming 
that same senior mortgage priority position. If anything, First Bank 
argues, the contractors are better off because it was First Bank’s loan that 
enabled EdgeRock to pay Garmong’s outstanding invoices.  
 
9 First Bank argues that Signworks is not on equal footing with Garmong and Fox because 
Signworks performed work only on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2, not EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5. So 
Signworks’s only claim to an interest in Lots 4 and 5 is through its money judgment against 
EdgeRock, which the bank argues is junior to its mortgage lien. Signworks does not respond 
to this argument, which we treat as conceded.  

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 36 of 41 
Equitable subrogation is a common-law doctrine for avoiding the 
“inequitable application of the general principle that priority in time gives 
a lien priority in right.” Neu v. Gibson, 928 N.E.2d 556, 560 (Ind. 2010). 
Under the doctrine, when a payor discharges the entire debt that a debtor 
held subject to a mortgage, the payor succeeds to the previous 
mortgagee’s rights, including the priority over junior liens, so long as 
there is no prejudice to the interests of junior lienholders. Bank of New York 
v. Nally, 820 N.E.2d 644, 651, 655 (Ind. 2005). The basis for the doctrine is 
“the lender’s justified expectation of receiving a security interest in the 
property.” Id. at 653 (brackets and quotations omitted). Otherwise, junior 
lienholders would obtain a windfall through promotion in priority. Id. “In 
considering whether to order subrogation and thus bypass the general 
principle of priority, courts base their decisions on the equities, 
particularly the avoidance of windfalls and the absence of any prejudice to 
the interests of junior lienholders.” Neu, 928 N.E.2d at 560. 
As we’ve previously explained:  
We agree with the Restatement at least in the context of a 
conventional refinancing. A lender providing funds to pay off 
an existing mortgage expects to receive the same security as the 
loan being paid off. Refinancings are commonplace in today’s 
economy. Permitting a junior lienholder to leapfrog the priority 
of the current senior mortgage would impair the owner’s access 
to more favorable interest rates. Unless a junior lienholder is 
disadvantaged by permitting subrogation, we see no reason to 
give the junior lienholder in effect the right to block or object to 
the refinancing. We conclude that a mortgagee who refinances 
an existing mortgage is entitled to equitable subrogation even if 
it had actual or constructive knowledge of an existing lien on 
the property unless the junior lienholder is disadvantaged or 
the mortgagee is “culpably negligent” . . . but this remedy is 
subject to the rights and limitations of the subrogor. 
Nally, 820 N.E.2d at 653–54. 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 37 of 41 
First Bank argues equitable subrogation applies here because it paid off 
the investors’ acquisition mortgage for Lots 4 and 5 expecting to receive 
the same security—a mortgage on the property with senior priority—as 
the investor loan that First Bank paid off. And, the bank argues, allowing 
the contractors to leapfrog the priority of the mortgage security would 
produce a windfall to them at First Bank’s expense. The bank also argues 
this would put contractors in a position to block a project owner’s access 
to refinancing options on more favorable lending terms. 
The trial court found that the equities favored the contractors because 
the portion of the loan in dispute was not a traditional refinancing but a 
vehicle for the investors to retrieve their capital without paying the 
contractors that had improved the properties composing the project in 
which they had invested. As the court explained, “[t]he Bank knew it was 
paying off an existing mechanic’s lien for an in-trouble project through an 
unconventional financing arrangement,” including that “[t]he Bank knew 
that it was not making a traditional construction loan or purchase-money 
loan where it would finance the purchase of the properties and pay 
additional draws as the construction progressed.” App. Vol. 2 at 169–70, 
¶ 132. None of the disputed funds were spent on the project, and the loan 
application noted that the loan was for non-purchase collateral.  
“The Bank also knew the transaction between Oak Ridge Investors and 
Edgerock was not an arm’s-length deal,” that “Edgerock had an interest in 
Oak Ridge Investors,” and “that Birch Dalton was the manager of both 
entities.” Id. at 170, ¶ 133. There was no purchase agreement for 
transferring Lots 4 and 5 from Oak Ridge to EdgeRock, and the quitclaim 
deed noted both that the transaction was for “no consideration” and that it 
was “a transfer between related LLCs with a common principal for 
internal company purposes.” Id. at 170, ¶ 134.  
First Bank argues the trial court should have balanced the equities 
differently and concluded that declining to apply equitable subrogation 
gives the contractors “an unearned windfall” and places them “in a far 
better position than they would have been without [the bank’s] loan.” 
Br. of Appellant First Bank Richmond at 45. Without the loan, the bank 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 38 of 41 
argues, “Garmong would not have received a sizeable payment for its 
work.” Id. But there are two problems with this argument.  
The first problem is that while it is certainly true that the bank’s loan 
proceeds enabled EdgeRock to pay Garmong’s outstanding invoices, the 
parties agree that the bank’s mortgage lien is senior as to those funds. But 
those funds were less than half the loan. It is the rest of the loan proceeds 
that are in dispute. And as to those proceeds, there was evidence 
supporting the trial court’s finding that those funds were not for 
refinancing a construction project but for returning capital to investors, 
which then avoided paying the contractors for improvements they made 
to the property in the project in which the investors had invested.  
The second problem is that the argument contradicts our standard of 
review. While the trial court could have weighed the equities as the bank 
proposes, the court didn’t have to. We cannot second-guess the court’s 
judgment because the evidence supports its findings, and its findings 
support its conclusion.10  
We therefore affirm the trial court’s judgment declining to apply 
equitable subrogation.11 
Conclusion  
For these reasons, we affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand for the 
trial court to amend the judgment consistent with this opinion. That 
includes amending the judgment to reflect:  
 
10 We summarily affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals reversing the trial court’s award 
to EdgeRock of the Road Impact Fees and instructing the trial court to distribute the funds 
consistent with the outcome of related litigation in the Hamilton County Commercial Court. 
EdgeRock Dev., LLC, 227 N.E.3d at 936. We also summarily affirm the decision of the Court of 
Appeals awarding First Bank its attorney fees. Id. at 938.  
11 The trial court also concluded, and Garmong and Fox agree, that the legislature’s statutory 
scheme for construction lien priority abrogated the doctrine of equitable subrogation in this 
context. Because we affirm the trial court’s decision not to apply the doctrine, we need not 
decide whether the lien statute has abrogated the doctrine in this context.   

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 39 of 41 
• Garmong’s construction liens against EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 
securing the $943,042.64 debt under the EdgeRock-Garmong 
contract are invalid, but the related judgment liens against 
EdgeRock remain valid.  
 
• Garmong’s construction liens on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 securing the 
debt under the EdgeRock-Garmong contract are valid only for the 
amount of $520,509.70, and they may be enforced only if the sale of 
EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 does not satisfy the debt.  
 
• Fox’s construction liens on EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 securing the 
$202,623.56 debt under the Fox-Garmong subcontract are valid, but 
Fox’s liens for that amount on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 are not.  
 
• Fox’s construction liens on EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 securing the 
$1,166,728.33 owed under the EdgeRock-Fox contract are valid, but 
Fox’s liens on ZPS’s Lots 1 and 2 securing that debt are not.  
 
• Signworks’s judgment lien on EdgeRock’s Lots 4 and 5 is junior to 
First Bank’s mortgage lien on those lots. 
In addition, we summarily affirm the holdings of the Court of Appeals: 
(1) that the trial court did not err in concluding that factual disputes 
precluded summary judgment on EdgeRock’s claim that Change Order #3 
was invalid because it was not approved in writing; (2) that the trial court 
did not err in granting Garmong’s summary judgment motion (and 
denying EdgeRock’s competing summary judgment motion) on 
EdgeRock’s claim that it was entitled to a credit for amounts owed under 
the Garmong contract for work related to the 175th Street Project and the 
drain relocation; (3) reversing the trial court’s award to EdgeRock of the 
Road Impact Fees and instructing the trial court to distribute the funds 
consistent with the outcome of related litigation in the Hamilton County 
Commercial Court; and (4) that First Bank is entitled to recover attorney 
fees from EdgeRock.  
 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 40 of 41 
Finally, we affirm the trial court’s judgment in all respects not 
appealed. Also, like the Court of Appeals, we note that our holdings do 
not disturb the in personam judgments against EdgeRock on Garmong’s 
and Fox’s breach-of-contract claims. 
Rush, C.J., Massa, Slaughter, and Goff, JJ., concur. 
ATTORNEYS FOR APPELLANT EDGEROCK DEVELOPMENT, LLC 
Maggie L. Smith 
Darren A. Craig 
Frost Brown Todd LLP 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
ATTORNEYS FOR APPELLANT ZPS WESTFIELD, LLC 
Nathaniel M. Uhl 
Jenny R. Buchheit 
Adam M. Alexander 
Ice Miller LLP 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
ATTORNEYS FOR APPELLANT FIRST BANK RICHMOND 
Scott J. Fandre 
David M. Johnson 
Krieg Devault LLP 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
 
Bryan H. Babb 
James E. Carlberg 
Nathan T. Danielson 
Bose McKinney & Evans LLP 
Indianapolis Indiana 
Ronald L. Cross 
Boston Bever Forrest Cross & Sickmann 
Richmond, Indiana 

Indiana Supreme Court | Case No. 24S-PL-184 | June 3, 2025 
Page 41 of 41 
 
ATTORNEYS FOR APPELLEES C.H. GARMONG & SON, INC., AND 
SIGNWORKS, INC. 
Peter S. French 
Jeffrey D. Stemerick 
Neil R. Peluchette 
Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
ATTORNEYS FOR APPELLEE FOX CONTRACTORS CORP. 
Robert W. Eherenman 
Haller Colvin PC 
Fort Wayne, Indiana 
ATTORNEYS FOR AMICUS CURIAE INDIANA BANKERS ASSOCIATION 
Thomas W. Dinwiddie 
Daniel R. Kelley 
Dinsmore & Shohl LLP 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
ATTORNEYS FOR AMICI CURIAE INDIANA CONSTRUCTORS, INC., 
INDIANA BUILDERS ASSOCIATION, AND ASSOCIATED GENERAL 
CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA, INC. 
Joseph M. Leone 
Michael F. Drewry 
Sean T. Devenney 
Drewry Simmons Vornehm, LLP 
Carmel, Indiana 
 
