2025 UT App 98 
THE UTAH COURT OF APPEALS 
GLOBE CONTRACTING LLC, 
Appellee, 
v. 
RAYMOND R. HOUR, KIMBERLY TAING, HOUR TAING ENTERPRISE 
LLC, AND HOUR CHIROPRACTIC CLINIC INC., 
Appellants. 
Opinion 
No. 20240058-CA 
Filed July 3, 2025 
Third District Court, Salt Lake Department 
The Honorable Coral Sanchez 
No. 170900003 
Jeffrey T. Colemere, Tamara J. Hauge, and 
Emily Adams, Attorneys for Appellants 
Benjamin S. Ruesch, Tony G. Jones, 
Travis Dunsmoor, and Jeannette Barney, 
Attorneys for Appellee 
JUDGE RYAN D. TENNEY authored this Opinion, in which 
JUDGES GREGORY K. ORME and JOHN D. LUTHY concurred. 
TENNEY, Judge: 
¶1 
Dr. Raymond Hour and Globe Contracting LLC (Globe) 
entered into a contract in which Globe agreed to construct an 
office building for Hour’s chiropractic clinic. After Hour failed to 
make the last three payments that were due under the contract, 
Globe sued, raising several causes of action relating to breach of 
contract. Hour counterclaimed, asserting that Globe had breached 
the contract first—and, as a result, that Hour had been justified in 
not continuing to pay Globe for its work. At the close of a bench 
trial, the district court ruled that Hour had breached the contract 
and that he had no justification for doing so. In its findings of fact 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
2 
2025 UT App 98 
 
and conclusions of law, the district court awarded Globe 
damages. And after several months of posttrial litigation, the 
court ordered Hour to pay prejudgment interest, costs, and 
attorney fees.  
¶2 
Hour raises several issues on appeal. For the reasons set 
forth below, we rule as follows:  
• First, we affirm the district court’s determinations that 
Hour was liable for breach of contract (and the other 
associated claims). 
• Second, we affirm the district court’s calculation of 
Globe’s damages. 
• Third, we reverse the district court’s awards of 
prejudgment interest and costs to Globe, and we remand 
for further proceedings on those awards. 
• Finally, we reverse the district court’s award of attorney 
fees to Globe, and we remand for further proceedings on 
that award. 
BACKGROUND1 
Contract and Dispute 
¶3 
Hour is a chiropractor, and Globe is a licensed general 
contractor. In October 2015, Hour and Globe agreed to a contract 
under which Globe would construct an office building for Hour’s 
 
1. “On appeal from a bench trial, we view and recite the evidence 
in the light most favorable to the trial court’s findings; we present 
additional evidence only as necessary to understand the issues on 
appeal.” Bountiful City v. Sisch, 2023 UT App 141, n.1, 540 P.3d 
1164 (quotation simplified). 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
3 
2025 UT App 98 
 
chiropractic clinic. Under the terms of the contract, Hour was to 
pay Globe $650,000 “subject to additions and deductions for 
written change orders.” Hour was required to pay Globe through 
monthly “progress payments” that were due 30 days after Globe 
sent Hour an application for payment, and Globe’s applications 
for payment were to be sent “on or before the 30th day of each 
month for labor and materials delivered to the jobsite during the 
month.” 
¶4 
The contract stated that the monthly progress payments 
could be “withheld” under four delineated circumstances: 
1. Work is found defective and not remedied; 
2. [Globe] does not make prompt and proper 
payments to subcontractor; 
3. [Globe] does not make prompt and proper 
payments for labor, materials, or equipment 
furnished; 
4. Another contractor is damaged by an act for 
which [Globe] is responsible. 
¶5 
The contract provided that construction was to “begin 
within seven (7) days after issuance of building permit,” that work 
was to “be substantially completed two-hundred and ten (210) 
days after issuance of building permit,” and that “[a]ny request 
for additional days [was to] be treated as a request for a change 
order, and must be in writing before it will be considered by” 
Hour. The contract further provided that the “times stated in” the 
contract could be “extended by a change order” by Hour or when 
Globe was “delayed in work progress by changes ordered, . . . 
weather, . . . or other causes beyond [Globe’s] control or which 
justif[ied] the delay.” 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
4 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶6 
The contract also stated that if Globe “default[ed] in 
performances of any provision” from the contract “or fail[ed] to 
carry out the construction in accordance with the provision of the 
contract documents,” Hour was entitled to “terminate” the 
contract “on thirty (30) days written notice to” Globe, or to instead 
not terminate the contract but “make good the deficiency of which 
the default consists, and deduct the cost from the progress 
payment then or to become due to” Globe. Finally, the contract 
contained an attorney fee provision, which stated that if “any 
action is filed in relation to this Agreement, the unsuccessful party 
in the action shall pay to the successful party, in addition to all the 
sums that either party may be called on to pay, a reasonable sum 
for the successful party’s attorney fees.”  
¶7 
The city issued a building permit on December 1, 2015. As 
a result, a construction expert later testified at trial (and no party 
has disputed on appeal) that, under the contract’s 210-day 
provision, construction was expected to begin on December 7, 
2015, and be “substantially completed” by July 5, 2016. In late 2015 
and early 2016, however, there were construction delays caused 
by “abnormally cold weather,” “rain fall and subsequent mud,” 
and the discovery of “[c]oncealed debris” on the building site. 
¶8 
On June 7, 2016, Hour, through his attorney, sent a letter to 
Globe stating that “as of this time, it is apparent that there is no 
way the work can be completed by [the required] date.” Hour 
informed Globe that he was giving “notice pursuant to the 
contract that [Globe was] in default” and that he was also giving 
“30 days notice of his termination of the contract.” On July 18, 
2016, Hour’s attorney sent another letter to Globe stating that 
because “the building [was] not substantially completed within 
two hundred and ten days as required” by the contract, Globe was 
“in default” and the contract was “no longer binding on . . . 
Hour.” 
¶9 
But although these letters spoke of “termination,” Hour 
later informed Globe that he would give it “till the end of 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
5 
2025 UT App 98 
 
September” to complete the project.2 Moreover, during 
construction, “Hour initiated 24 changes” to the project, “most of 
which were substantial changes that affected the finished portions 
of construction and were initiated after the date of Hour’s 30-day 
notice to terminate” the contract “for lack of progress,” and at 
least some of which were requested after the July 2016 letter. 
¶10 
Hour made timely payments for the first seven progress 
payments, the seventh of which was linked to the June pay 
application. But Hour did not make the eighth, ninth, or tenth 
progress payments, which were due, respectively, at the end of 
August, September, and October. Even though Hour stopped 
paying, Globe continued with its construction work until the end 
of September 2016. 
¶11 
On September 22, 2016, Hour notified Globe that he was 
dissatisfied with the quality of the workmanship. On September 
28, 2016, Hour terminated the contract. As of September 28, 
however, both Hour and a new contractor that he had hired to 
take over the project believed that the project “was substantially 
complete.” The next day, the city performed a “scheduled” 
inspection for temporary occupancy. The building did not pass 
the inspection because, among other reasons, the stairwell doors 
were not fire rated. 
Complaint, Counterclaim, and Pretrial Litigation 
¶12 
In January 2017, Globe sued Hour, asserting a number of 
claims. Those relevant to this appeal were claims for breach of 
contract, breach of warranty, unjust enrichment, lien foreclosure, 
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and 
 
2. Hour has taken a similar view on appeal, agreeing that, after 
the June and July letters, he “gave Globe an additional three 
months—until September 2016—to finish” the project, and 
further asserting that he finally “terminated” the contract on 
September 28, 2016. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
6 
2025 UT App 98 
 
intentional interference with contractual relations. In connection 
with these claims, Globe requested damages, prejudgment and 
postjudgment interest, and attorney fees. Globe filed the 
complaint in the Third District Court, and it originally did so pro 
se. A few months after Globe filed its complaint, attorneys who 
were based in southern Utah filed a notice of appearance, and 
those attorneys represented Globe throughout the ensuing several 
years of litigation (and have continued to do so up through this 
appeal).3 
¶13 
Hour filed an answer that included a counterclaim against 
Globe. In his answer, Hour asserted that he was justified in not 
paying Globe—indeed, for even “terminat[ing] . . . the contract”—
because Globe itself had committed “material breaches of the 
contract.” 
Hour 
elaborated 
on 
these 
assertions 
in 
his 
counterclaim, alleging there that Globe had breached the contract 
by, among other things, “failing to complete the work on the 
project within 210 days[] without good cause,” performing 
substandard and defective work, “hiring subcontractors who 
were not licensed to do the work and/or not qualified for the work 
they were hired” to do, and “failing to pay several of its 
subcontractors who worked on the project.” 
 
3. Under settled principles, a corporation is not entitled to “self-
representation because corporations are artificial entities that are 
not allowed to represent themselves in court.” Hartford Leasing 
Corp. v. State, 888 P.2d 694, 700 (Utah Ct. App. 1994); see also Tracy-
Burke Assocs. v. Department of Emp. Sec., 699 P.2d 687, 688 (Utah 
1985) (“It has long been the law of this jurisdiction that a corporate 
litigant must be represented in court by a licensed attorney.”); 
CoBon Energy, LLC v. AGTC, Inc., 2011 UT App 330, ¶ 9 n.1, 264 
P.3d 219. But Globe’s initial violation of this rule seems to have 
been cured in short order. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
7 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶14 
After a series of pretrial rulings, the case went to a bench 
trial on the claims and counterclaims listed above.4 
¶15 
At the close of discovery, and pursuant to court order, the 
parties submitted direct examinations of their witnesses in written 
form in early March 2020. Trial was scheduled to occur at the end 
of March 2020, but it was delayed for nearly three years due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. A several-day bench trial was eventually 
held in February and March 2023, at which time the parties were 
able to cross-examine and then examine, on redirect, the witnesses 
 
4. By way of background, there were several additional parties 
and claims that did not make it to trial. These included the 
following: 
• Along with Globe, two individuals—Matthew Barlow and 
Damir Alijagic—were listed as plaintiffs on the complaint. 
Before trial, the district court dismissed all of the claims 
asserted by Barlow and Alijagic in their individual 
capacities. 
• In addition to suing Hour, the plaintiffs sued Kimberly 
Taing, Hour Taing Enterprise LLC, and Hour Chiropractic 
Clinic Inc. With one exception, the district court dismissed 
all of the claims against these additional defendants before 
trial. The exception was the unjust enrichment claim, 
which proceeded to trial against all of the defendants. 
• Finally, this case was initially consolidated with a separate 
construction lien case between Hour and Globe that also 
involved one of Globe’s subcontractors. Before trial, the 
district court granted summary judgment on behalf of 
Globe, and no party has challenged that ruling in this 
appeal. 
Although the case involved, at various times, the additional 
parties we’ve just identified, the parties on appeal have 
consistently referred to the two sides as “Globe” and “Hour.” 
We’ll follow suit throughout this opinion. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
8 
2025 UT App 98 
 
whose direct examinations had been submitted years earlier in 
written form.  
¶16 
As part of its submissions in 2020, Globe submitted a direct 
examination of Matthew Barlow, who was Globe’s president and 
a managing member.5 In that written examination, Barlow stated 
that he had previously filed a construction lien on the project for 
$55,533.17, and that, at the time, Globe seemed to have intended 
for this to reflect the amount that Globe believed that Hour still 
owed to Globe. Before trial resumed in 2023, however, Globe 
submitted a damages exhibit that requested $61,901.92 in 
damages. During a hearing, Hour’s counsel explained that the 
two sides had “talked about” certain “change orders” and had 
accordingly “changed” certain numbers by way of “stipulation[].” 
In a posttrial filing, Globe explained that while it had been 
preparing for the 2023 trial, it had become aware of “certain 
change orders that were either undisputed or not properly 
accounted for” in the earlier estimate of damages, thus resulting 
in the change. 
Trial and Ruling 
¶17 
As indicated, the district court heard several days of 
testimony in the spring of 2023. The court subsequently issued 
findings of fact and conclusions of law. There, the court concluded 
that Hour had breached the contract by “withholding payment on 
the July 2016, August 2016, and September 2016 pay 
applications.” The court further concluded that this was a 
“material breach,” reasoning that in “construction contracts, no 
other breach is more material to contractors than the unjustified 
nonpayment to contractors and suppliers.”  
¶18 
The court then concluded that Hour’s nonpayments were 
“not justified under the [c]ontract or Utah law.” At trial, Hour’s 
 
5. As noted, Barlow was originally listed as a plaintiff, but the 
court dismissed his individual claims before trial. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
9 
2025 UT App 98 
 
principal contention was that, as of July 2016, he was justified in 
not paying because of Globe’s delays. But the court rejected this 
contention for two main reasons. First, the court noted that the 
contract had set forth four reasons that would allow Hour to 
withhold payments but that delays were not one of them, and the 
court saw no other provision in the contract that allowed him to 
“withhold payment due to time delay.” And the court declined to 
infer that time was of the essence for purposes of this contract 
given that, among other things, there was no “time is of the 
essence” provision in the contract, and because, until the June 
2016 letter, “Hour had not communicated to Globe that it was 
imperative for the work to be substantially completed within 210 
days.” Second, the court also held that, even if timeliness could be 
viewed as a material requirement under the contract, the delays 
that had occurred at the time that Hour stopped paying were 
attributable to both weather and “change orders by Hour,” those 
delays “were not the fault of Globe,” and “the date of substantial 
completion was extended to November 29, 2016”—which was 
well past the point at which Hour had breached the contract by 
stopping his payments.  
¶19 
The court also addressed Hour’s contention that he was 
justified in no longer paying because of defects in Globe’s 
workmanship. 
The 
court 
specifically 
found 
that 
the 
workmanship issues Hour pointed to at trial did not 
actually “arise until September 22, 2016, months after Hour 
decided to withhold payment,” that Hour had not notified Globe 
of his complaints until September 22, and that Hour believed the 
project “was substantially complete by September 28.” The court 
further found that, even if the alleged problems did “require[] 
correction,” Hour had not given Globe the opportunity to remedy 
them as contemplated by the contract.6 The court accordingly 
concluded that the problems Hour identified “could not have 
 
6. As noted, the contract allowed Hour to withhold payment if 
work was “found defective and not remedied.” (Emphasis added.) 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
10 
2025 UT App 98 
 
been a basis for Hour withholding the progress payments in 
earlier months.”  
¶20 
Given these determinations, the court concluded that Hour 
was not justified in withholding payments. And for similar 
reasons, the court also concluded that Hour had breached the 
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
¶21 
Finally, the court determined that Globe’s claimed 
damages were “reasonable,” awarded Globe $61,901.92 in 
damages, held that Globe was entitled to foreclose on the property 
based on its construction lien, and ruled that Globe was “entitled 
to an award of reasonable attorney fees and costs as provided by 
the [c]ontract and Utah Statute.”  
Posttrial Litigation on Liability and Damages 
¶22 
Hour filed several posttrial motions and objections. In a 
motion to alter or amend the court’s findings and conclusions, 
Hour challenged the court’s conclusions that he was liable for 
breach of contract and of the covenant of good faith and fair 
dealing, arguing, among other things, that Globe had performed 
defective work before Hour withheld any progress payments and 
that Hour had given Globe notice and time to correct the defective 
work in September 2016. Hour also argued that he was justified 
in withholding progress payments due to Globe’s failure to pay 
subcontractors. Hour additionally argued that the court’s 
damages award was contrary to the evidence—namely, Barlow’s 
initial testimony stating that Globe’s damages were only 
$55,533.17.  
¶23 
 At a hearing on Hour’s motion, Globe argued that Hour 
was attempting to “relitigate issues” that “were already ruled on 
by the [c]ourt.” And it further argued that none of the court’s 
findings “were clearly erroneous.” The court took the “motion[] 
under advisement,” and it later issued a brief written ruling 
denying Hour’s motion to alter or amend. In doing so, it simply 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
11 
2025 UT App 98 
 
stated that it was “adopt[ing] the arguments made at the hearing 
. . . and the briefing submitted by the parties.” 
Posttrial Litigation on Prejudgment Interest, Attorney Fees, and Costs 
¶24 
After the court issued its initial findings of fact and 
conclusions of law, Globe filed a proposed judgment that 
included an award of prejudgment interest pursuant to Utah 
Code section 15-1-1. (As indicated earlier, the complaint itself had 
likewise requested an award of prejudgment interest.) 
¶25 
Globe also filed separate requests for both attorney fees 
and costs. In support of the request for attorney fees, Globe 
explained that it was seeking fees for “the legal work performed 
for the successful litigation for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of 
warranty, (3) lien foreclosure, and (4) breach of implied covenant 
of good faith and fair dealing.” Globe also included an attorney 
fee affidavit that detailed the billing rates of the attorneys 
involved and the time that each attorney spent on various tasks. 
Of some note for this appeal, that affidavit (and, by extension, the 
request) included many entries for travel time from southern Utah 
to court proceedings in northern Utah where the trial was held. In 
this application, Globe requested $72,066.00 in attorney fees. 
¶26 
In the request for costs, Globe asserted that it was entitled 
to costs under rule 54 of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. In an 
accompanying affidavit of costs, Globe’s attorneys itemized and 
requested costs associated with filing fees, expert witness and 
mediator fees, subpoena service, and transcripts, and they also 
itemized and requested costs for such things as food for the 
attorneys, flights, a VRBO housing rental, and other travel 
expenses for the attorneys. Altogether, Globe sought $32,179.97 in 
costs. 
¶27 
Without awaiting a response from Hour, the court issued a 
judgment that awarded Globe the prejudgment interest, attorney 
fees, and costs that it had requested. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
12 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶28 
Hour promptly objected. He first argued that there was no 
basis for awarding prejudgment interest under either Utah Code 
section 15-1-1 or the contract. Hour also argued that the attorney 
fee request was unreasonable because, among other things, it 
contained duplicative entries, asked for fees relating to motions 
that Globe did not prevail on, and requested fees for time that the 
attorneys had spent traveling. Hour also argued that “[w]here the 
parties’ evidentiary submissions in support of a request for 
attorney fees are deficient, so will be the court’s evaluation of 
those fees.” (Quoting Foote v. Clark, 962 P.2d 52, 56 (Utah 1998).) 
Finally, with respect to costs, Hour argued that the request was 
improper because it asked for costs that are not allowable under 
rule 54 of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. 
¶29 
Globe soon filed a detailed response to Hour’s objections. 
As part of this response, Globe added an additional justification 
for its requests for prejudgment interest, attorney fees, and costs—
namely, that these were all justified under Utah Code section 13-
8-5, which Globe broadly contended was applicable to “all 
construction contracts relating to construction work or 
improvements.”7 (Quoting Utah Code § 13-8-5(2)(a).) Relying on 
this statute, Globe “revised” its earlier request for prejudgment 
interest and now sought the higher interest rate that it contended 
was awardable under section 13-8-5. With respect to costs, Globe 
argued that even if costs were limited under rule 54, the court had 
“sound discretion” to award additional costs under section 13-8-
5. And with respect to attorney fees, Globe contended that it was 
entitled to attorney fees under both the parties’ contract and the 
“statute,” in an apparent reference to section 13-8-5. Finally, Globe 
contended that its request for attorney fees—including fees 
associated with travel time—was reasonable. 
 
7. In a subsequent filing, Globe said that, while preparing this 
response, it had “discovered” that its earlier request for 
prejudgment interest had inadvertently been based on section 15-
1-1, as opposed to section 13-8-5. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
13 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶30 
The parties then engaged in substantial litigation about the 
prejudgment interest, attorney fees, and costs issues. In the course 
of this litigation, the parties took starkly contrasting views of 
whether section 13-8-5 applied to this case: Hour argued that the 
statute did not apply because Globe had not complied with 
certain requirements set forth therein, while Globe argued that it 
did apply and was in fact “created to deter the exact harm 
suffered by Globe.” 
¶31 
The court held a hearing on the various outstanding 
motions. It subsequently issued a short order stating that it was 
ruling in Globe’s favor based on “the arguments made at the 
hearing” and in “the briefing.” The court later issued an amended 
judgment that expressly awarded prejudgment interest pursuant 
to section 13-8-5, seemed to link the award of attorney fees and 
costs to that statute as well, and now included additional time that 
Globe’s attorneys had spent litigating the posttrial motions. This 
award included the following: 
• $61,901.92 in damages; 
• $108,798.14 in prejudgment interest; 
• $98,531.00 in attorney fees; and 
• $32,179.97 in costs.  
ISSUES AND STANDARDS OF REVIEW 
¶32 
On appeal, Hour first argues that the district court erred in 
concluding that he breached the contract when he stopped paying 
the progress payments. As detailed below, the arguments 
presented on appeal involve the interpretation of the contract and 
a review of the district court’s findings regarding the alleged 
breaches. “The interpretation of a contract is a question of law, 
which we review for correctness, giving no deference to the ruling 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
14 
2025 UT App 98 
 
of the district court.” Richman & Richman LLC v. Redmond, 2023 UT 
App 158, ¶ 18, 542 P.3d 130 (quotation simplified). “Whether a 
party performed under a contract or breached a contract is a 
question of fact,” iDrive Logistics LLC v. IntegraCore LLC, 2018 UT 
App 40, ¶ 43, 424 P.3d 970, and the district court’s fact findings 
“enjoy a high degree of deference” and will be “overturned only 
when clearly erroneous,” Randolph v. State, 2022 UT 34, ¶ 18, 515 
P.3d 444 (quotation simplified).  
¶33 
Second, Hour argues that the district court’s damages 
calculation was not supported by the evidence. “The award of 
damages is a factual determination that we review for clear error.” 
Saleh v. Farmers Ins. Exch., 2006 UT 20, ¶ 29, 133 P.3d 428. 
¶34 
Third, Hour argues that the district court erred in 
determining that Globe was entitled to prejudgment interest and 
costs. As a general matter, a district court’s “decision to award 
prejudgment interest presents a question of law which we review 
for correctness.” Encon Utah, LLC v. Fluor Ames Kraemer, LLC, 2009 
UT 7, ¶ 11, 210 P.3d 263 (quotation simplified). As indicated, the 
awards of both prejudgment interest and costs were based on the 
court’s conclusion that Utah Code section 13-8-5 applied. 
“Matters of statutory construction are questions of law that are 
reviewed for correctness.” Id. (quotation simplified).8 
 
8. Costs awards are generally “reviewed under an abuse of 
discretion standard.” Jensen v. Sawyers, 2005 UT 81, ¶ 140, 130 P.3d 
325 (quotation simplified). But “legal errors, such as the incorrect 
interpretation of a statute or the application of an improper legal 
standard, are usually an abuse of discretion,” Hillam v. Hillam, 
2024 UT App 102, ¶ 26, 554 P.3d 1137 (quotation simplified), and 
it’s axiomatic that legal errors are reviewed for correctness, see 
ASC Utah, Inc. v. Wolf Mountain Resorts, LC, 2013 UT 24, ¶ 23, 309 
P.3d 201. As discussed below, we conclude that the costs award 
in this case was based on an incorrect interpretation of a statute, 
(continued…) 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
15 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶35 
Finally, Hour argues that the district court awarded Globe 
unreasonable attorney fees. As our supreme court has explained:  
Attorney fees are awarded only when authorized by 
statute or by contract. The award of attorney fees is 
a matter of law, which we review for correctness. 
However, a trial court has broad discretion in 
determining what constitutes a reasonable fee, and 
we will consider that determination against an 
abuse-of-discretion standard. The standard of 
review on appeal of the amount of a trial court’s 
award of attorney fees is patent error or clear abuse 
of discretion. 
Jensen v. Sawyers, 2005 UT 81, ¶ 127, 130 P.3d 325 (quotation 
simplified). 
ANALYSIS 
I. Breach of Contract 
¶36 
As noted, Globe sued Hour for breach of contract, and 
Hour then counterclaimed, asserting that he was justified in 
stopping payments by Globe’s own breaches of the contract. At 
the close of trial, the district court ruled in Globe’s favor.  
¶37 
On appeal, Hour does not challenge the district court’s 
finding that he did not pay the “July 2016, August 2016, and 
September 2016 pay applications,” nor does he challenge its 
conclusion that, without justification, his nonpayments would 
have been a “material breach” of the contract. Instead, as he did 
 
as opposed to a discretionary decision about how much in costs 
to award under an applicable rule, so we regard the portion of the 
ruling that we’re reviewing as being one that’s initially reviewed 
for correctness. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
16 
2025 UT App 98 
 
below, Hour argues that he was justified in his nonpayments 
because of Globe’s own breaches of the contract. More 
specifically, Hour claims that by the time he stopped paying, 
Globe had already breached in four ways: (A) performing 
defective work; (B) failing to timely pay subcontractors; (C) failing 
to timely complete the project; and (D) hiring an unlicensed 
subcontractor.  
¶38 
As indicated, “defective” work and failing to make 
“prompt and proper payments” to subcontractors were two of the 
four conditions set forth in the contract that would allow Hour to 
“withhold” the progress payments. The remaining two 
justifications that Hour advances on appeal (not timely 
completing the project and hiring an unlicensed subcontractor) 
were not included in that list. As a result, Hour invokes what has 
sometimes been referred to as the “first breach rule.” Under that 
rule, “when one party materially breaches a provision of a 
contract, the other party’s subsequent failure to perform a specific 
obligation is excused if the promises are mutually dependent.” 
Larson v. Stauffer, 2022 UT App 108, ¶ 26, 518 P.3d 175 (quotation 
simplified); see also Cross v. Olsen, 2013 UT App 135, ¶ 25, 303 P.3d 
1030 (“Under the first breach rule a party first guilty of a 
substantial or material breach of contract cannot complain if the 
other party thereafter refuses to perform.” (quotation simplified)). 
Hour thus argues that because “the undisputed evidence shows 
Globe breached first,” he was entitled to stop paying his 
obligations under the contract.  
A.  
Defective Work 
¶39 
Hour first argues that Globe breached the contract “by 
performing noncompliant and defective work.” But the court took 
evidence on this very issue throughout trial. In its ruling, the court 
found that the workmanship issues Hour pointed to at trial did 
not “arise until September 22, 2016, months after Hour decided to 
withhold payment,” that Hour had not notified Globe of his 
complaints until that same date, and that Hour still believed the 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
17 
2025 UT App 98 
 
project “was substantially complete by September 28.” The court 
further found that, even if the alleged problems did “require[] 
correction,” “Hour never gave Globe the ability to correct any 
problems” related to the allegedly defective work “and therefore 
was not justified in withholding the progress payments” on this 
basis. 
¶40 
Hour challenges these findings on appeal, pointing to 
evidence that, in his view, shows that the work was defective 
before he stopped payments and that he gave Globe the 
opportunity to remedy it. But in advancing these challenges, Hour 
does not first marshal the evidence supporting the court’s 
findings, much less account for that evidence. “A party 
challenging a district court’s factual findings on appeal bears a 
heavy burden of persuasion in demonstrating that the court’s 
findings are clearly erroneous.” Pankhurst v. Pankhurst, 2022 UT 
App 36, ¶ 15, 508 P.3d 612 (quotation simplified). The marshaling 
obligation is properly understood as “a natural extension of an 
appellant’s burden of persuasion.” State v. Nielsen, 2014 UT 10, 
¶¶ 40–41, 326 P.3d 645, superseded by statute on other grounds as 
recognized in State v. Richins, 2025 UT 10, 568 P.3d 1046. And a 
party that is challenging a fact finding “will almost certainly fail 
to carry its burden of persuasion on appeal if it fails to marshal 
and respond to evidence or authority that could sustain the 
decision under review.” In re Discipline of LaJeunesse, 2018 UT 6, 
¶ 28, 416 P.3d 1122 (quotation simplified).  
¶41 
This was a complicated case that raised a host of fact-
intensive issues and resulted in a lengthy record. Because Hour 
failed to comply with his marshaling obligations, we conclude 
that he failed to satisfy his burden of persuading us that, in light 
of the whole record (as opposed to the evidence that supported 
his view of things), the findings recounted above were clearly 
erroneous. And accepting those findings as true, we see no basis 
for concluding that, on account of defective workmanship, Hour 
was justified in withholding payment for the July pay application 
or those that followed, given that evidence shows that the issues 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
18 
2025 UT App 98 
 
did not arise until later and Hour had not provided Globe with 
the opportunity to remedy the problems. We therefore reject this 
claim.  
B.  
Payment to Subcontractors 
¶42 
Under the contract, Globe was required to “provide and 
pay for all labor, materials, . . . and other services necessary for the 
proper completion of work on the project in accordance with the 
contract documents.” As indicated, one of the four conditions by 
which Hour could withhold progress payments was a failure by 
Globe to “make prompt and proper payments” to a subcontractor. 
On appeal, Hour argues that Globe breached the contract by 
failing to pay some of its subcontractors, thus justifying his 
decision to stop paying. 
¶43 
As an initial matter, we note that the district court did not 
specifically find, in its findings of fact and conclusions of law, that 
Globe had not breached in this regard. But even so, “unstated 
findings can be implied” if “it is reasonable to assume” that the 
district court “actually considered the controverted evidence and 
necessarily made a finding to resolve the controversy, but simply 
failed to record the factual determination it made.” In re A.S., 2024 
UT App 52, ¶ 20 n.6, 548 P.3d 181 (quotation simplified), cert. 
denied, 554 P.3d 988 (Utah 2024); see also State v. Stewart, 2019 UT 
39, ¶ 27, 449 P.3d 59 (noting that the supreme court has 
“occasionally endorsed the propriety of a regime” in which an 
appellate court may “assume that the trier of facts found facts in 
accord with its decision despite the absence of express findings of 
fact” (quotation simplified)). Here, it is reasonable to assume that 
the district court impliedly found that Globe did not breach in this 
regard. After all, Hour pleaded this issue in his counterclaim and 
presented evidence on it at trial. At the close of trial, the district 
court resolved the case through its mutually reinforcing 
conclusions that (1) Hour breached and (2) Hour’s breach was not 
justified by any breach from Globe. Moreover, after Hour again 
raised the issue relating to nonpayment of subcontractors in his 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
19 
2025 UT App 98 
 
posttrial motion to amend, Globe’s response was that Hour was 
attempting to “relitigate issues” that “were already ruled on by 
the [c]ourt.” When the district court later denied that motion, it 
did so based on its decision to “adopt[] the arguments” from the 
parties. From all this, we think it clear enough that the district 
court impliedly found that Globe did not breach by failing to pay 
subcontractors.  
¶44 
So viewed, the record does not support Hour’s assertion 
that he was justified in stopping payments based on any failure 
by Globe to pay a subcontractor. To the contrary, the evidence 
presented at trial showed that one of the particular subcontractors 
in question didn’t even send an invoice for its work until August 
24, 2016, and it further showed that Globe would have paid this 
subcontractor out of the payment that was due to it at the end of 
August, which, again, Hour never made. As Globe succinctly puts 
it in its brief, it could not “pay subcontractors when Hour did not 
pay Globe.” And it further shows that Globe did pay the other 
subcontractors identified by Hour. 
¶45 
We therefore see no basis for concluding that, at the time 
that Hour stopped paying, Globe had already materially breached 
the contract by not paying any of the subcontractors.  
C.  
Timely Completion 
¶46 
 Hour next argues that by the time he stopped paying, 
Globe had materially breached the contract by not timely 
completing the building. As indicated, this seems to have been 
the principal argument Hour made at trial. But at the close of 
trial, the court rejected this argument for two reasons: first, it 
held that Globe was not required to complete the project by July 
2016, particularly given that time was not of the essence for 
purposes of this contract; second, the court held that even if time 
was of the essence, Globe had not violated its obligations at the 
time that Hour stopped paying because the delays were 
attributable to both weather and Hour’s own actions (namely, 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
20 
2025 UT App 98 
 
Hour’s change orders). We see no basis for overturning either 
determination.  
¶47 
First, Hour challenges the court’s conclusion that time was 
not of the essence for purposes of this contract. Hour 
acknowledges that there was no such clause in the contract. But 
he nevertheless points out that in Barker v. Francis, our supreme 
court held that, even without such a clause, “the circumstances 
surrounding the transaction can imply that the parties intended 
timeliness of performance to be of paramount concern.” 741 P.2d 
548, 552 (Utah 1987). 
¶48 
It’s not clear to us that Barker is as applicable here as Hour 
claims it is. Barker involved a real estate purchase contract. Id. at 
550. And we have since distinguished several time-of-the-essence 
cases, in part, by noting that, like Barker, they involved the 
“limited circumstances of a real estate escrow transaction.” iDrive 
Logistics LLC v. IntegraCore LLC, 2018 UT App 40, ¶ 58 n.12, 424 
P.3d 970. Hour has not pointed to any authority that arose outside 
of the context of real estate contracts that allowed courts to imply 
that time was of the essence. 
¶49 
Moreover, some authorities suggest that courts generally 
do not imply that time was of the essence in the particular context 
of construction contracts. See, e.g., 13 Am. Jur. 2d Building and 
Construction Contracts § 49 (2025) (“As a general rule, time is not 
of the essence of a building or construction contract in the absence 
of a provision in the contract making it so; the mere statement of 
a date in such a contract does not make time of the essence.”). As 
explained by one respected treatise, because “[d]elays are 
common in construction and building contracts for many 
reasons,” “time is not ordinarily of the essence of a building or 
construction contract,” and “[t]his rule holds true even where the 
parties have expressly agreed to a specific time of performance in 
their contract and even, according to some courts, where there is 
a nonnegotiated boilerplate clause in the contract providing that 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
21 
2025 UT App 98 
 
time is of the essence.” 15 Williston on Contracts § 46:7 (4th ed. 
2024).  
¶50 
Regardless, we have no need here to definitively determine 
whether it can ever be legally possible to imply, from 
circumstances alone, that time was of the essence for a particular 
construction contract. This is so because we see no basis for 
reversing the district court’s conclusion that it was not of the 
essence here. Hour points to two circumstances that, in his view, 
made time of the essence: (1) testimony suggesting that the lease 
for the office building that he was using during the construction 
was set to expire in October 2016, and (2) testimony that the 
contractor he hired to replace Globe was aware of his anticipated 
October 2016 move-in date. But Hour points to no testimony or 
evidence showing that Globe was aware that Hour had to move 
out of his prior building by October 2016, let alone testimony 
showing that Globe was aware of this when the parties negotiated 
the contract. Without such testimony or evidence, we see no basis 
for concluding that there was a meeting of the minds on this 
implied term. And in light of this, we cannot conclude that the 
district court erred when it declined to recognize this as an 
implied term.  
¶51 
Second, we also see no basis for reversing the district 
court’s conclusion that, even if the 210-day provision could be 
interpreted as a material provision, Globe did not breach 
its obligations. As noted, with regard to the 210-day provision, 
the 
contract 
expressly 
provided 
that 
Globe’s 
timing 
obligations could be “extended by a change order” by Hour, 
or instead when Globe was “delayed in work progress by 
changes ordered” or by “weather.” In its ruling, the court 
expressly held that, at the time that Hour stopped paying, the 
delays in the project were attributable to both weather and 
“change orders by Hour,” these delays “were not the fault of 
Globe,” and “the date of substantial completion was extended to 
November 29, 2016.”  

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
22 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶52 
Hour challenges these determinations on appeal. But in 
doing so, he fails to marshal the evidence supporting the court’s 
findings about the weather delays—indeed, although this was 
one of the district court’s express justifications for rejecting Hour’s 
timing-related argument, the word “weather” appears just a 
single time in Hour’s opening brief, and when it does, it’s in a 
passing reference to the court’s ruling. Hour also fails to marshal 
the evidence showing that Globe’s delays were attributable to his 
own change orders. Regardless, we note that, marshaling 
problems 
aside, 
there 
was 
evidence 
to 
support 
both 
determinations. At trial, there was testimony and evidence about 
the weather associated delays, including “abnormally cold 
weather below freezing” in December and January that 
“prevent[ed] work” on nine days, as well as “rain fall and 
subsequent mud in January to April [that] delayed the 
construction 21 working days.” There was also substantial 
testimony about Hour’s change orders during the project, 
including, of note, in June and July 2016. In addition, Globe also 
called a construction expert at trial, who opined that based on the 
various delays, which were “outside of [Globe’s] control,” the 
revised substantial completion date for construction was 
“November 29, 2016.” The district court appears to have credited 
this testimony. 
¶53 
As a result, on the basis of this record and the arguments 
presented to us, we are not persuaded that the court erred in its 
determination that, at the time Hour stopped paying, Globe was 
justified in the delays and therefore had not breached the contract. 
D.  
Unlicensed Subcontractor  
¶54 
Under one of the terms of the contract, Globe “agree[d] not 
to employ for work on the project any person unfit or without 
sufficient skill to perform the job for which he or she was 
employed.” At trial, the district court heard evidence that one of 
the subcontractors who worked on the project did not “have a 
license at the time of the construction.” The court also heard 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
23 
2025 UT App 98 
 
evidence suggesting that this subcontractor previously had a 
“license for 20 years,” but the license had “expired” at some prior 
point, and the court further heard evidence that Globe discovered 
this “a little bit after” the work in question had been performed. 
¶55 
As with the issue relating to the nonpayment of 
subcontractors, the district court did not specifically address this 
in its findings of fact and conclusions of law. But for the same 
reasons given above relating to that issue, we think it reasonable 
to assume that the court impliedly found that Globe did not 
breach in this regard. Again, the issue was tried and submitted to 
the court, and the court’s ruling was premised on the reinforcing 
notions that Hour had breached but Globe did not. 
¶56 
Contrary to the assertions advanced by Hour on appeal, we 
see no basis for overturning the court’s implied determination 
that Globe did not breach in this regard. This is so for two reasons.  
¶57 
First, we see no indication from this contract that this was 
a breach. As indicated, the clause in question did not require all 
subcontractors to have a “license.” Rather, it prohibited Globe 
from employing subcontractors who were “unfit” and “without 
sufficient skill.” Those terms were not further defined, and Hour 
has not pointed to any evidence suggesting that the parties ever 
agreed that these terms referred to a subcontractor’s licensing 
status. If Hour had wanted to insist that all subcontractors must 
be “licensed,” he could have negotiated that as a term of the 
contract. Because he didn’t, “we decline to read such language 
into the contract now.” Airstar Corp. v. Keystone Aviation LLC, 2022 
UT App 73, ¶ 57, 514 P.3d 568; see also Bakowski v. Mountain States 
Steel, Inc., 2002 UT 62, ¶ 19, 52 P.3d 1179 (“We will not make a 
better contract for the parties than they have made for 
themselves.”). 
¶58 
Second, we also note that the first breach rule is not 
triggered by just any breach of the contract. Rather, it becomes 
operative when the other party is “guilty of a substantial or 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
24 
2025 UT App 98 
 
material breach of contract,” Cross, 2013 UT App 135, ¶ 25 
(quotation simplified), and “the promises are mutually 
dependent,” Larson, 2022 UT App 108, ¶ 26 (quotation simplified).  
¶59 
On appeal, Hour points to a provision in the Utah 
Construction Trades Licensing Act that requires contractors to be 
licensed. And he likewise points to our decision in State v. Bohne, 
where, in conjunction with a criminal prosecution of a contractor 
for operating without a license, we held that the “legislative 
purpose for the Construction Trades Licensing Act is to protect 
the public from inept and financially irresponsible builders.” 2001 
UT App 11, ¶ 11, 18 P.3d 514 (quotation simplified). We have no 
quarrel here with the propositions that contractors and 
subcontractors alike must comply with applicable licensing rules 
and that any failure to do so can subject them to applicable 
penalties. But this appeal does not involve a challenge to the 
subcontractor’s licensing status, nor does it involve any discipline 
that was or should have been imposed on Globe for unwittingly 
employing an unlicensed subcontractor. Rather, this is an appeal 
from a breach of contract action, and the more particular question 
in front of us is whether it was somehow a material breach of the 
contract for Globe to employ an unlicensed subcontractor.  
¶60 
While the record on this is somewhat sparse, it does 
indicate that Hour was not even aware of the problem with the 
subcontractor’s license until after he had stopped paying, and 
while the record indicates that the subcontractor’s license had 
lapsed, it does not indicate that this was due to some problem of 
skill (as opposed to being for something like nonpayment of fees). 
Having considered the matter, it seems to us that if the work 
performed by the subcontractor was substandard in some 
important way, this could have supported a claim of material 
breach for defective work. As discussed above, however, Hour 
has not persuaded us that there were any such problems of 
workmanship at the time that he stopped paying. And Hour has 
not separately persuaded us that the licensing status of the 
subcontractors itself was so important to the parties that it would 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
25 
2025 UT App 98 
 
be a material breach of the contract for Globe to employ an 
unlicensed subcontractor (even if the subcontractor was 
otherwise providing capable work), particularly where the parties 
didn’t think to include any language about the licensing status of 
the subcontractors in the contract at all. Nor has he persuaded us 
that his obligation to pay the monthly progress payments was in 
any way “mutually dependent” on any unspoken understanding 
that the subcontractors would have active licenses (as opposed to 
simply being fit and capable of performing the work for which 
they had been hired). 
¶61 
We therefore decline to reverse the judgment on this basis. 
And because we have rejected each of Hour’s other challenges to 
the court’s conclusion that he was liable for breach of contract, we 
affirm that decision.9  
II. Damages 
¶62 
Hour next challenges the damages award, arguing that it 
was flawed in two respects: first, Hour claims that Globe did not 
lay a sufficient foundation for the revised estimate that it 
submitted during the 2023 portion of the trial; and second, Hour 
claims that there was insufficient evidence to support the ultimate 
award. We disagree on both fronts. 
¶63 
First, Hour claims that the revised damages estimate was 
inadmissible under rule 1006 of the Utah Rules of Evidence 
because Globe did not call “a competent witness to establish the 
 
9. Hour also argues that the district court erred in concluding that 
he breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. In doing 
so, Hour repeats the same arguments he made relating to the 
breach of contract claim. Put differently, Hour simply contends 
that because he did not breach the contract, he likewise did not 
breach the covenant of good faith and fair dealing either. We reject 
this argument for the same reasons that we rejected Hour’s 
arguments relating to the breach of contract itself.  

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
26 
2025 UT App 98 
 
necessary foundation for the summary and the underlying 
records.” (Quoting Sunridge Dev. Corp. v. RB & G Eng’g, Inc., 2013 
UT App 146, ¶ 20, 305 P.3d 171.) But as noted above, Hour’s 
counsel affirmatively stipulated that Globe could submit the 
revised estimate at trial. And in context, it seems that the point of 
this stipulation was to relieve Globe of the necessity of going 
through certain steps such as calling a foundational witness. Hour 
has provided us with no legal basis for relieving him of this 
stipulation. In light of it, we reject his assertion that Globe was 
required to call a foundational witness before submitting the 
revised damages estimate. 
¶64 
Second, Hour argues that, even if the revised estimate 
could be submitted, the district court erred in basing its damages 
award on it. Hour claims that Globe’s submission was nothing 
more than an “incomplete estimate of costs.” By contrast, he 
claims that he provided the court with “reasonably certain” lists 
of “expenses” and “offsets.” In his view, because his evidence was 
more precise than Globe’s, the court should have based the 
damages award on his evidence, not Globe’s.  
¶65 
But as we’ve recently explained, “a district court can rely 
on estimates in awarding damages if the estimate is the most 
direct, practical and accurate method that can be employed.” 
Capozzoli v. Madden, 2024 UT App 176, ¶ 29, 561 P.3d 727 
(quotation simplified). Moreover, in cases like this one, our 
appellate courts have recognized that the district court is 
empowered to decide what evidence to accept and what amount 
is necessary to make the plaintiff whole. See, e.g., Bevan v. J.H. 
Constr. Co., 669 P.2d 442, 444 (Utah 1983) (“[T]he general rule of 
damages . . . arms the trial court with the discretion to place the 
litigants as nearly as possible in the position they would have 
enjoyed had the contract not been breached.”); Wagstaff v. Remco, 
Inc., 540 P.2d 931, 934 (Utah 1975) (“The fact that [the defendant] 
may have actually spent the money on some of these accounts for 
labor and materials does not necessarily compel a finding that it 
is entitled to reimbursement therefor. It is only entitled to 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
27 
2025 UT App 98 
 
reimbursement, and offset on the account, for whatever the trial 
court believed upon competent evidence was the reasonable and 
necessary amount for such labor and materials.”); see also 
Yelderman v. Yelderman, 669 P.2d 406, 408 (Utah 1983) (noting that 
“it is within the province of the fact finder to believe those 
witnesses or evidence it chooses”); Knowlton v. Knowlton, 2023 UT 
App 16, ¶¶ 59 n.13, 63, 525 P.3d 898 (noting that a district court 
“is in the superior position to assess the weight of evidence” and, 
in the context of a domestic case, affording discretion to district 
courts in deciding which valuation of property to accept). And we 
again note that the “award of damages is a factual determination 
that we review for clear error.” Saleh v. Farmers Ins. Exch., 2006 UT 
20, ¶ 29, 133 P.3d 428.  
¶66 
Here, the parties clearly disagreed about how much Globe 
should be awarded in damages. But, by virtue of the stipulation, 
Globe’s revised damages estimate was admissible. With that in 
evidence, Hour has provided us with no persuasive support for 
his assertion that the district court could not choose to credit it. 
We therefore are not persuaded that the damages award was 
clearly erroneous.  
III. Prejudgment Interest and Costs 
¶67 
In its amended judgment, the district court awarded Globe 
both prejudgment interest and costs pursuant to Utah Code 
section 13-8-5. Hour now challenges those awards. In our view, 
section 13-8-5 was inapplicable to this case, so we reverse those 
awards and remand for further proceedings consistent with our 
directions below.10 
 
10. The court initially awarded both costs and attorney fees “as 
provided by the [c]ontract and Utah Statute.” As will be discussed 
in Part IV, there was a basis in the contract for an award of 
attorney fees, so we separately address the attorney fee award 
(continued…) 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
28 
2025 UT App 98 
 
A.  
The Section 13-8-5 Scheme 
¶68 
Utah Code section 13-8-5 has received very little treatment 
in the caselaw. It has been cited in only two decisions, both of 
which came from federal district courts (and one of which was 
unpublished). See Industrious Service Group, Inc. v. Henry F. 
Teichmann, Inc., No. 23-cv-00389, 2023 WL 6444049, at *1 (D. Utah 
Oct. 3, 2023); Cross Marine Projects, Inc. v. Morton Salt, Inc., 396 F. 
Supp. 3d 1037, 1039 (D. Utah 2019). It has not yet been cited by 
any Utah appellate decision.  
¶69 
But having considered the matter here, we conclude that 
this statute simply does not apply in this case and therefore could 
not be used as the legal justification for an award of either 
prejudgment interest or costs. To explain why, we think it 
instructive to first discuss how this statute operates as a whole. 
After all, when we interpret a statutory provision, we do so “in 
light of its linguistic, structural, and statutory context,” and we 
also consider the provision “in the context of the overall statutory 
scheme.” Utah Am. Energy Inc. v. Labor Comm’n, 2021 UT App 33, 
¶ 15, 484 P.3d 1195 (quotation simplified); see also Orten v. Utah 
County, 2024 UT App 132, ¶ 28, 558 P.3d 900 (noting that “when 
interpreting statutory schemes, Utah courts often apply the 
whole-text canon, which calls on the judicial interpreter to 
consider the entire text, in view of its structure and of the physical 
and logical relation of its many parts” (quotation simplified)).  
¶70 
Section 13-8-5 applies to “all construction contracts relating 
to construction work or improvements entered into on or after 
July 1, 1999,” between various kinds of construction-related 
entities. Utah Code § 13-8-5(2)(a). And the statute is largely 
 
there. But because there was not a provision in the contract 
entitling either party to an award of costs, Globe’s request for the 
costs award needed to instead be justified by either a statute or a 
rule. As indicated, the only statute the court ultimately pointed to 
in support of the costs award was Utah Code section 13-8-5. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
29 
2025 UT App 98 
 
structured around provisions from contracts relating to “retention 
proceeds”—that term or some variant thereof appears repeatedly 
throughout the statute, and as a function of both substance and 
even grammar, it’s the lynchpin to understanding the statute’s 
various terms. Of note, the term “retention proceeds” is 
statutorily defined in subsection 13-8-5(1)(i) as being the “money 
earned by a contractor or subcontractor but retained by the owner 
or public agency pursuant to the terms of a construction contract 
to guarantee payment or performance by the contractor or 
subcontractor of the construction contract.” Id. § 13-8-5(1)(i) 
(emphases added).  
¶71 
Section 13-8-5 has eleven subparts. For purposes of 
understanding why this statute is inapplicable to this case, the key 
parts of the scheme are these:  
• Subsection (3) places certain limits on the amount of 
retention proceeds that can be withheld—namely, the 
“total retention proceeds withheld may not exceed 5% of 
the total construction price.” Id. § 13-8-5(3)(b).  
• Subsection (4) states that if “payment on a contract . . . is 
retained or withheld . . . as retention proceeds, it shall be 
placed in an interest-bearing account and accounted for 
separately from other amounts paid under the contract.” 
Id. § 13-8-5(4)(a). Subsection (4) then states that the 
interest accrued on these retention proceeds must be “for 
the benefit of the contractor and subcontractors” and 
must be “paid after the project is completed and accepted 
by the owner.” Id. § 13-8-5(4)(b)(i)–(ii). And it further 
states that the retention proceeds and interest “are 
considered to be in a constructive trust for the benefit of 
the contractor and subcontractors who have earned the 
proceeds.” Id. § 13-8-5(4)(d)(i).  
• Subsection (5) states that “[a]ny retention proceeds 
retained or withheld pursuant to this section and any 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
30 
2025 UT App 98 
 
accrued interest shall be released pursuant to a billing 
statement from the contractor” within 45 days of certain 
defined events relating to the completion of the project. 
Id. § 13-8-5(5). 
• Subsection (7) states that the billing statement referred to 
in subsection (5) must “include documentation of lien 
releases or waivers.” Id. § 13-8-5(7).  
• Finally, subsection (10)—which is the provision that the 
district court ultimately invoked below—states that “[i]n 
any action for the collection of the retained proceeds 
withheld and retained in violation of this section, the 
successful party is entitled to: (i) attorney fees; and 
(ii) other allowable costs.” Id. § 13-8-5(10)(a). 
¶72 
Taken as a whole, section 13-8-5 thus sets forth a detailed 
scheme under which, pursuant to the terms of a construction 
contract, a party can retain certain funds, in certain amounts, 
under certain delineated circumstances, and for the specific 
purpose of guaranteeing performance by the other side. This 
statute then contemplates that these retained funds will be released 
to the contractor once work is completed. In this sense, this statute 
essentially sets forth something of an escrow scheme for 
construction contracts. Indeed, the title of the statute itself refers 
to the creation of an “interest-bearing escrow account.”11  
 
11. “We recognize that the title of a statute is not part of the text 
of a statute, and absent ambiguity, it is generally not used to 
determine a statute’s intent.” Clean Harbors Env’t Services v. Labor 
Comm’n, 2019 UT App 52, ¶ 14 n.2, 440 P.3d 916 (quotation 
simplified). That said, even if a statute is not ambiguous, courts 
will sometimes note the title of a statute when it “is entirely 
consistent with the plain meaning of the text.” Id. In such a 
circumstance, the title essentially functions as something of a 
(continued…) 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
31 
2025 UT App 98 
 
B.  
The Applicability of Section 13-8-5 to This Case 
¶73 
Again, the district court awarded prejudgment interest and 
costs under Utah Code section 13-8-5(10). In the parties’ initial 
briefs on appeal, each party claimed that the other party failed to 
take certain steps required by this statute. In his opening brief, 
Hour faulted Globe for not providing him with “a complete 
billing statement containing ‘lien releases or waivers’” as required 
by section 13-8-5(7). In its responsive brief, Globe asserted that it 
wasn’t required to submit a billing statement (or the 
accompanying lien releases and waivers) because Hour had 
“retained” more money than he was allowed under subsection 
(3), and, perhaps more importantly, because Hour never put the 
money in an interest-bearing account as required by subsection 
(4). In his reply brief, Hour did not claim that Globe was mistaken 
on these assertions; instead, Hour accepted them, and he then 
asserted that these collective failures illustrate why Globe has “no 
claim to prejudgment interest” or costs under this statute at all. 
As discussed, this was the view Hour took below as well. 
¶74 
We agree with Hour that the statute did not apply to the 
claims at issue in this case. Globe’s position seems to assume that 
this statute is operative whenever a party to a construction-related 
contract stops paying the contractor. But the plain language and 
structure of the statute both belie this broad assertion. Instead, 
they show that this statute is targeted at something more specific. 
As discussed, this statute applies when money that is “earned by 
a contractor” is “retained” in specifically defined amounts 
“pursuant to the terms of a construction contract” in order “to 
guarantee payment or performance,” when the owner places that 
money in a specific kind of account that functions as a 
“constructive trust for the benefit of the contractor,” and when it’s 
 
corroborative data point. Here, we believe that the reference in the 
title of this statute to an “interest-bearing escrow account” is 
corroborative of the various provisions from the statutory text 
that we’ve laid out. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
32 
2025 UT App 98 
 
contemplated that this money will be “released” to the contractor 
at the conclusion of the project pursuant to a defined process that 
includes billing statements and lien releases or waivers. Id. § 13-8-
5(1)(i), (3), (4)(a), (4)(d)(i), (5), (7). When this kind of contractual 
provision relating to the retention of funds has been invoked, and 
there is a subsequent “action for the collection of the retained 
proceeds withheld and retained in violation of this section,” the 
statute allows the “successful party” to receive an award of 
prejudgment interest, attorney fees, and costs. Id. § 13-8-5(10)(a)–
(b). 
¶75 
But no party has alleged that any of these predicates 
occurred here. When Hour stopped paying the monthly progress 
payments, he didn’t purport to “retain” the proceeds “pursuant 
to the terms of the construction contract,” nor did he ever put the 
“earned” monies into an interest-bearing account that would be 
for the benefit of Globe once the project was completed. Rather, at 
all relevant times in this case, Hour informed Globe of his intent 
to terminate the contract. He initially did so in both the June and 
July 2016 letters. And while he then apparently changed his mind 
and gave Globe until September, he then officially “terminated” 
the contract at the end of that month. It seems to be for precisely 
this reason that Globe never submitted billing statements 
accompanied by lien releases and waivers—Globe wouldn’t have 
thought it needed to do so, because Hour had never claimed that 
he was retaining funds pursuant to this statutory scheme at all. 
Instead, Hour’s position had simply been that he could terminate 
the contract because Globe had already breached it. Simply put, 
terminating a contract outright is not the same thing as putting 
funds into an escrow account pursuant to a process that is defined 
by contract and regulated by statute for the purpose of ensuring 
continued performance under the continued existence of that 
contract.  
¶76 
We therefore agree with Hour’s assertion that the kinds of 
claims that were litigated in this case weren’t covered by the 
scheme set forth in section 13-8-5. Rather, because the claims that 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
33 
2025 UT App 98 
 
were litigated were essentially traditional breach of contract 
claims, the remedies that Globe received when it prevailed 
needed to be based on some source of authority other than this 
statute.  
¶77 
As a result, the district court erred when it awarded 
prejudgment interest and costs under section 13-8-5. We therefore 
vacate those awards and remand with instructions for the district 
court to determine, in the first instance, whether Globe is entitled 
to prejudgment interest and costs under some other applicable 
source of authority.12  
IV. Attorney Fees 
¶78 
In its initial ruling, the district court awarded Globe 
$98,531.00 as “an award of reasonable attorney fees . . . as 
 
12. In conjunction with the costs portion of the award, the parties 
spent much effort in the briefing addressing the question of 
whether some of the expenses that seem to have been included in 
the court’s order can be awarded as costs pursuant to Utah Code 
section 13-8-5(10)(a)(ii). These included expenses relating to, 
among other things, food, travel, and hotels. But we’ve now 
concluded that this statute was inapplicable, so we’ve vacated 
that award.  
In its brief, Globe also argues that it is entitled to costs 
pursuant to rule 54(d) of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. We 
leave it up to the district court to determine, on remand, whether 
and to what extent costs will be awarded under that rule. In doing 
so, the court should pay attention to the “distinction between 
legitimate and taxable costs and other expenses of litigation which 
may be ever so necessary, but are not taxable as costs.” Stevensen 
3rd East, LC v. Watts, 2009 UT App 137, ¶ 62, 210 P.3d 977 
(quotation simplified); see also id. ¶ 63 (“Costs are defined as those 
fees which are required to be paid to the court and to witnesses, 
and for which the statutes authorize to be included in the 
judgment.” (quotation simplified)). 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
34 
2025 UT App 98 
 
provided by the [c]ontract and Utah Statute.” It’s unclear which 
statute the court was referring to when it issued this initial ruling. 
While Globe has subsequently justified that award based on Utah 
Code section 13-8-5(10), we’ve now held that section 13-8-5 is 
inapplicable.  
¶79 
But as noted by the court, the contract itself also provided 
for an award of attorney fees, stating that “[i]f any action is filed 
in relation to this Agreement, the unsuccessful party in the action 
shall pay to the successful party, in addition to all the sums that 
either party may be called upon to pay, a reasonable sum for the 
successful party’s attorney fees.” Based on this contractual 
language, the court therefore had a proper basis for awarding a 
“reasonable sum” in attorney fees. See Capozzoli, 2024 UT App 176, 
¶ 48 (“In Utah, attorney fees are awarded only if authorized by 
statute or contract. If provided for by contract, attorney fees are 
awarded in accordance with the terms of the contract.” (quotation 
simplified)). To the extent that this award was based on the 
contractual language, Hour now challenges the award on two 
bases. We disagree with Hour’s first contention, but we agree in 
part with his second, so we accordingly remand on a limited basis.  
¶80 
First, Hour argues that the court erred by awarding 
attorney fees that were based on time that Globe’s attorneys spent 
litigating “unsuccessful motions, claims, causes of action and 
regarding dismissed defendants.” But this assertion is at odds 
with the record. In a sworn affidavit that was filed in support of 
the application for attorney fees, one of Globe’s attorneys detailed 
the work performed by the various attorneys at the firm in 
conjunction with this case. Of note, this affidavit stated that the 
attorney fee request included “detailed descriptions of the time 
spent on, and the legal worked performed, for the successful 
litigation for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of warranty, (3) lien 
foreclosure, and (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith and 
fair dealing.” (Emphasis added.) On its face, the assertion that 
Globe was requesting fees for the “successful litigation” suggests 
that Globe was indeed limiting its request to fees incurred for the 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
35 
2025 UT App 98 
 
successful parts of the litigation. Moreover, counsel then provided 
several pages of charts that contained itemized entries. Hour has 
not pointed to any entry that appears linked to any unsuccessful 
motion. On the basis of the record and arguments presented to us, 
we see no basis for concluding that the attorney fee award was 
improperly based on time spent litigating unsuccessful motions, 
claims, causes of action or against dismissed defendants. See 
generally Brown v. David K. Richards & Co., 1999 UT App 109, ¶ 19, 
978 P.2d 470 (“We have awarded fees to a prevailing party even 
though some of the fees may not have been incurred on strictly 
compensable issues, because proof of the compensable and non-
compensable claims overlapped.”). 
¶81 
Hour’s second argument has to do with attorney fees that 
were awarded for travel time. As noted above, after Globe filed 
suit in the Third District, it hired attorneys who were located in 
southern Utah, and those attorneys then litigated the case 
throughout. In the aforementioned attorney fee affidavit, Globe 
requested fees for, among other things, time that its attorneys 
spent traveling. Without differentiating between the various 
items listed in the affidavit, the district court awarded the 
requested fees, concluding that the fee request was “reasonable.” 
On appeal, however, Hour argues that it was unreasonable for the 
court to award fees associated with travel time, given that Globe 
“voluntarily chose” to hire attorneys who lived several hours 
away from the site of the litigation. 
¶82 
At the outset, we note that a district court “has broad 
discretion in determining what constitutes a reasonable fee, and 
we will consider that determination against an abuse-of-
discretion standard.” Jensen v. Sawyers, 2005 UT 81, ¶ 127, 130 P.3d 
325 (quotation simplified); see also Freight Tec Mgmt. Group Inc. v. 
Chemex Inc., 2021 UT App 92, ¶ 20, 499 P.3d 894 (“The calculation 
of reasonable attorney fees is in the sound discretion of the trial 
court . . . .” (quotation simplified)). But there has been little Utah 
appellate authority that has addressed the particular question of 
whether there are limits to a district court’s discretion to award 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
36 
2025 UT App 98 
 
fees based on an attorney’s travel time. The one Utah case that 
addressed travel time at all is Strohm v. ClearOne Communications, 
Inc., 2013 UT 21, 308 P.3d 424. There, our supreme court affirmed 
an attorney fee award that included travel time for out-of-town 
attorneys, albeit at a “25 percent reduction.” Id. ¶ 59. Without 
much elaboration, the supreme court suggested that while such 
an award falls within the discretion of the district court, a district 
court should account for work “actually performed” as well as 
any other “circumstances which require consideration of 
additional factors.” Id. (quotation simplified). 
¶83 
Surveying the legal landscape, we see no definitive rule 
from other jurisdictions that have considered whether it’s 
appropriate to include an attorney’s travel time in an attorney fee 
award, particularly when one party chose to retain non-local 
counsel. Some courts and authorities have allowed travel time to 
be included simply on a showing that it would be “reasonable.” 
See, e.g., Apple Corps. Ltd. v. International Collectors Society, 25 F. 
Supp. 2d 480, 499 (D.N.J. 1998); 35B C.J.S. Federal Civil Proc. § 1359 
(2025). This comports with other authority suggesting that this 
kind of decision is best left to the discretion of the district court. 
See, e.g., Texas Mutual Ins. Co. v. DeJaynes, 590 S.W.3d 654, 670 (Tex. 
App. 2019). Some cases, however, have cautioned that travel time 
for non-local counsel should be awarded at a reduced rate. See, 
e.g., Smith v. Freeman, 921 F.2d 1120, 1122 (10th Cir. 1990); Maceira 
v. Pagan, 698 F.2d 38, 40 (1st Cir. 1983); Clark v. Phillips, 965 F. 
Supp. 331, 336 (N.D.N.Y. 1997). By contrast, some other courts 
have held that it would be inappropriate to award travel time for 
non-local counsel absent a showing of “special circumstances,” 
such as proof that competent local counsel could not be obtained. 
See Hahamovitch v. Hahamovitch, 133 So.3d 1062, 1063 (Fla. Dist. Ct. 
App. 2014). And some courts have permitted such an award, but 
only on a showing that this is consistent with the practice norm 
from the local community. See, e.g., Planned Parenthood of Central 
N.J. v. Attorney Gen. of State of N.J., 297 F.3d 253, 267–68 (3d Cir. 
2002). 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
37 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶84 
Given the lack of Utah authority on this question, we 
think it appropriate to offer some additional guidance. A party 
is entitled to hire counsel of its choice, and whenever a 
retained attorney is required to travel to court, the time the 
attorney spends traveling is time that the attorney is spending on 
the client’s behalf—and not, presumably, working for some other 
paying client. On this basic level, this seems to be why our 
supreme court in Strohm contemplated that a district court’s 
discretion to award attorney fees includes the discretion to 
include travel time.  
¶85 
But we also believe that if a party voluntarily chooses to 
hire non-local counsel who lives and practices some distance 
away, this may alter the district court’s calculus as to whether it 
would still be reasonable to charge the other party for that travel 
time as part of an attorney fee award. On the one hand, the party 
who hired non-local counsel may have had compelling reasons 
for hiring this attorney over others who were closer to the court, 
such as subject-matter specialty, a longstanding relationship, or 
perhaps even some favorable adjustment in the billing rates. On 
the other hand, we also see some potential merit to Hour’s 
suggestion that, depending on the circumstances and the strength 
of those justifications, it may be unfair to compel a party to foot 
the bill when the other side chooses to hire a non-local attorney 
who then must spend many hours of billable time traveling to and 
from court. 
¶86 
Given the number of potential considerations that are in 
play in such a decision, this seems to be the kind of decision 
that is best left to the discretion of the district court. A 
district court is better equipped than an appellate court to 
determine whether the party’s decision to employ non-local 
counsel was reasonable under the particular circumstances, and 
the district court is likewise better equipped to determine whether 
the attorney’s rates for travel time should be charged in full or, as 
was the decision of the district court in Strohm, at some reduced 
rate.  

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
38 
2025 UT App 98 
 
¶87 
With this as the backdrop, we accordingly disagree with 
Hour’s assertion that it was categorically unreasonable for the 
district court in this case to have awarded travel time as part of 
the attorney fee award. As indicated, our supreme court’s 
decision in Strohm places this kind of decision within the district 
court’s discretion. 
¶88 
In addition to challenging the court’s ability to make this 
determination, however, Hour also argues that the district court 
did not provide a sufficient explanation for why it thought it was 
reasonable to award attorney fees for travel time in these 
circumstances. In this sense, Hour is challenging the adequacy of 
the court’s explanation for this award.13 Having reviewed the 
court’s rulings, we see no clear explanation for why the court 
believed it was reasonable under the circumstances to require 
Hour to pay attorney fees associated with travel time, particularly 
given that Globe hired attorneys who lived several hours away 
from the district in which the case had been filed. In light of the 
concerns expressed above, we think it appropriate to require a 
district court to offer at least some explanation for such a decision 
when the other party has opposed this kind of request. Such an 
explanation is warranted, in part, because it facilitates the 
appellate court’s review if the other party makes a reasonableness 
challenge akin to the one advanced by Hour in this appeal.  
¶89 
Because we see no explanation from the court that would 
allow us to review this decision for reasonableness, we reverse the 
attorney fee award and remand with instructions for the district 
court to give an explanation for this portion of the attorney fee 
award. In so doing, we stress that our decision should not be 
 
13. Globe has not argued in response that the inadequacy portion 
of Hour’s claim was unpreserved, nor has it meaningfully 
responded to the inadequacy argument itself. Instead, Globe’s 
argument was simply that the court’s decision was reasonable. 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
39 
2025 UT App 98 
 
interpreted as preemptively putting our thumb on the scale either 
way.14 
 
14. Globe requests attorney fees incurred on appeal pursuant to 
rule 24(a)(9) of the Utah Rules of Appellate Procedure. “As a 
general matter, when a party who received attorney fees below 
prevails on appeal, the party is also entitled to fees reasonably 
incurred on appeal.” Elder v. Elder, 2024 UT App 68, ¶ 32, 550 P.3d 
488 (quotation simplified); see also Maxwell Masonry Restoration 
& Cleaning LLC v. North Ridge Constr. Inc., 2022 UT App 109, ¶ 52, 
518 P.3d 164 (“A provision for payment of attorney fees in a 
contract includes attorney fees incurred by the prevailing party 
on appeal as well as at trial, if the action is brought to enforce the 
contract.” (quotation simplified)).  
 
As discussed above, Globe has prevailed on the portions of 
this appeal relating to the contract and to the damages award. 
Globe is therefore entitled to an award of attorney fees it incurred 
in those portions of this appeal. But in Parts III and IV, we have 
reversed the court’s decisions relating to prejudgment interest 
and the fairly substantial costs and attorney fee awards. It’s 
unclear whether the district court will award a similar costs award 
on remand, and additional proceedings may result in some 
change to the attorney fee award as well. In light of these 
reversals, we conclude that Globe is not entitled to an award of 
appellate fees relating to those issues. See, e.g., Diversified Striping 
Sys. Inc. v. Kraus, 2022 UT App 91, ¶ 103, 516 P.3d 306 (“Because 
the Kraus Parties were awarded attorney fees below but prevailed 
only in part on appeal, they are entitled to only those appellate 
attorney fees associated with the issues on which they have 
prevailed. We remand for the district court to calculate those 
reasonable fees.”); Macris v. Sevea Int’l, Inc., 2013 UT App 176, 
¶ 53, 307 P.3d 625 (“We therefore award Macris partial attorney 
fees on appeal. Because Macris prevailed only in part on appeal, 
we remand to the trial court for a determination of the appropriate 
(continued…) 

Globe Contracting v. Hour 
20240058-CA 
40 
2025 UT App 98 
 
CONCLUSION 
¶90 
 We affirm the district court’s conclusion that Hour 
breached the contract, including the covenant of good faith and 
fair dealing, as well as the court’s award of damages. We vacate 
the court’s awards of prejudgment interest, costs, and attorney 
fees to Globe, and we remand for further proceedings on these 
issues that are consistent with this opinion. 
 
 
 
amount of attorney fees and costs incurred with respect to the 
issues on which he was successful on the appeal.”). On remand, 
the district court should accordingly award Globe only the 
attorney fees that it reasonably incurred in the portions of the 
appeal on which it prevailed.  
