Reversed and Remand and Opinion Filed May 25, 2022 
In The 
Court of Appeals 
Fifth District of Texas at Dallas 
No. 05-19-01412-CV 
HALL CA-NV, LLC, Appellant 
V. 
ROBERT RADOVAN AND WILLIAM CRISWELL, Appellees 
On Appeal from the 134th Judicial District Court 
Dallas County, Texas 
Trial Court Cause No. DC-18-02395 
MEMORANDUM OPINION 
Before Justices Molberg, Carlyle, and Smith1 
Opinion by Justice Molberg 
Hall CA-NV, LLC (Hall) appeals the trial court’s final judgment ordering that 
it take nothing on its claim that appellees, Robert Radovan and William Criswell, 
breached their loan guaranty agreements.  Hall raises six issues on appeal: whether 
(1) Hall proved all elements in its claim for recovery on the guaranty agreements; 
(2) Hall conclusively established damages; (3) the guaranty agreements waived any 
defenses raised by appellees; (4) appellees otherwise failed to plead or prove those 
 
1 The Honorable John Browning participated in the case submission but not in the issuance of this 
opinion, which occurred after the expiration of his term on December 31, 2020; the Honorable Craig Smith 
succeeded him and has reviewed the briefs and record before the Court.  See TEX. R. APP. P. 41.1. 

 
–2– 
defenses; (5) the trial court’s findings of fact should be set aside because Hall proved 
liability and damages and appellees waived or failed to prove any defenses; and (6) 
the trial court abused its discretion by admitting into evidence a bankruptcy order.  
We conclude legally sufficient evidence supported Hall’s claim, and Radovan and 
Criswell waived any defenses to liability and otherwise failed to prove any 
applicable defense.  We set aside the trial court’s findings to the contrary.  
Accordingly, we reverse the trial court’s judgment and render judgment for Hall. 
I. 
BACKGROUND 
a. Loan and guaranty agreements 
Hall CA-NV, LLC agreed to loan New Cal-Neva Lodge, LLC up to $29 
million for a hotel renovation project.  The hotel being renovated was the collateral 
that secured the loan.  As additional security for the loan, Hall would receive “100% 
of the membership interests in” the nearby Fairwinds Estate.  Their loan agreement 
provided that the “maximum aggregate amount of the Loan shall not exceed the 
lesser of (i) 60% of the Lender approved acquisition and renovation costs, (ii) 60% 
of the appraised value of the Project, on an ‘as completed’ basis, or (iii) 
$29,000,000.00.”  The loan was to be paid in installments.  Interest on the loan, at 
“rates specified in the Note,” was computed on the unpaid principal balance and was 
“due and payable as set forth in” a promissory note the parties executed.  New Cal-
Neva agreed to pay “all expenses of the Loan,” including a Commitment Fee and 
Hall’s attorney’s fees “incurred in connection” with the loan.  According to the 

 
–3– 
promissory note, an additional five percent in interest would accrue on the balance 
in the event of default.   
The loan agreement specified that Hall could “perform any of such covenants, 
agreements and obligations, and any amounts expended by [Hall] in so doing shall 
constitute additional indebtedness” if New Cal-Neva failed to perform any of its 
covenants, agreements, or obligations under the agreement and other loan 
documents.  New Cal-Neva also covenanted and agreed Hall would be allowed to 
settle mechanic’s lien claims that New Cal-Neva failed to discharge.   
 
Radovan and Criswell, the principals of New Cal-Neva, executed and signed 
separate but identical guaranty agreements guaranteeing the loan.  In section two of 
their respective agreements, Radovan and Criswell “unconditionally and irrevocably 
guarantee[d] to [Hall] the punctual payment when due, whether by lapse of time, by 
acceleration of maturity, or otherwise, and at all times thereafter, of the Guaranteed 
Indebtedness.”  The guaranties were continuing guaranties of payment and not 
guaranties of collection.  Radovan and Criswell each agreed “that if all or any part 
of the Guaranteed Indebtedness shall not be punctually paid when due . . . Guarantor 
shall, immediately, upon demand by Lender, pay the amount due” on the 
indebtedness.  The guaranty agreements specified that Radovan and Criswell were 
“jointly and severally liable for the payment and performance” of the guaranteed 
obligations.   

 
–4– 
Radovan and Criswell, in section nine of the agreements, agreed that their 
obligations under the agreements  
shall not be released, discharged, diminished, impaired, reduced, or 
affected for any reason or by the occurrence of any event, including, 
without limitation, one or more of the following events, whether or not 
with notice to or the consent of Guarantor: (a) the taking or accepting 
of collateral as security for any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations or 
the release, surrender, exchange, or subordination of any collateral now 
or hereafter securing any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations; (b) any 
partial release of the liability of Borrower or any Pledger, or Guarantor 
hereunder, or the full or partial release of any other guarantor or obligor 
from liability for any or an of the Guaranteed Obligations; (c) any 
disability of Borrower, or the dissolution, insolvency, or bankruptcy of 
Borrower, or any other guarantor, or any other party at any time liable 
for the payment of any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations; . . . (i) the 
settlement or compromise of any of the Guaranteed Obligations; . . . or 
(n) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense 
available to, or discharge of, Borrower or Guarantor. 
The two guarantors also waived their right to require Hall to sue or exhaust its 
remedies against New Cal-Neva and other guarantors and obligors.  They waived 
“any principles or provisions of law, statutory, or otherwise, which are or might be 
in conflict with the terms hereof and any legal or equitable discharge of Guarantor’s 
Obligations hereunder . . . .”  These were waived whether they arose under “common 
law, in equity, under contract, by statute, or otherwise . . . .”  Radovan and Criswell 
further agreed Hall could “exercise any and all rights granted to it under the Loan 
Agreement, and the other Loan Documents without affecting the validity or 
enforceability of this Guaranty.”   

 
–5– 
b. Bankruptcy and litigation 
Following foundation problems with the construction and the loss of certain 
investors, New Cal-Neva defaulted on the Hall loan and filed for bankruptcy.  A 
buyer was found, and the hotel and related assets were sold for about $38.15 million.  
The buyer also wanted to purchase the Fairwinds Estate, which was not part of the 
bankruptcy estate.  The bankruptcy court included a “limited exculpation” in its 
order, which provided as follows: 
For the avoidance of doubt, and in furtherance of Fed. R. Bankr. P. 
6004(f)(2) and other applicable law, the Court hereby confirms and 
orders that there shall be no personal liability for any individual who 
executes any documents, including the revised Plan Documents, that 
the Buyer reasonably deems necessary to effectuate the transfer of the 
Purchased Assets, including without limitation the Fairwinds Estate, to 
the Buyer, and any such individual is exculpated from any personal 
liability that might otherwise arise on account of the execution of such 
Plan Documents. 
 
The general contractor, Penta Building Group, claimed to have a priority 
mechanic’s lien over the hotel property.  As part of the bankruptcy settlement, a “lien 
litigation reserve” of $15 million was carved out of the sale proceeds for Hall and 
Penta to resolve Penta’s claim.  Hall and Penta ultimately agreed Penta would 
receive $8,025,000 from the reserve.  In total, Hall received about $27.5 million plus 
furniture, fixtures, and equipment, which was about $700,000.  Hall also received 
$171,000 from Old Republic to reimburse it for attorney’s fees.  Hall extended 
additional funds in connection with the bankruptcy, totaling about $2 million.  Hall 
also incurred attorney’s fees from the bankruptcy proceeding. 

 
–6– 
Through counsel, Hall demanded Radovan and Criswell pay the full amount 
of the guaranteed indebtedness pursuant to their guaranty agreements.  Hall sued 
Radovan and Criswell to recover the guaranteed indebtedness under their 
agreements.  They answered, making general and specific denials, and asserting 
several affirmative defenses, including waiver, estoppel, accord and satisfaction, the 
one satisfaction rule, failure to mitigate, impaired collateral, res judicata, and 
collateral estoppel.  In appellees’ rule 166 disclosure, they noted the question of a 
material alteration of the underlying contracts as a “contested issue of fact.”  In their 
“identification of legal matters to be ruled on or decided by the court,” they noted (i) 
the scope of the bankruptcy court’s exculpation order, (ii) whether Hall may enforce 
the guaranty agreements, (iii) “[w]hether [their] affirmative defenses preclude 
enforcement of the guaranty agreements.” 
At the bench trial, Michael Jaynes, president of Hall, testified that Hall had 
not sold or transferred its interest in the loan at issue.  He said Hall received about 
$27.5 million plus furniture, fixtures, and equipment from the New Cal-Neva 
bankruptcy estate.  Hall received about $170,000 from its insurer, which it was 
seeking to recover from Radovan and Criswell.  Other than that, Hall had not 
received anything from any other source.  Jaynes said Hall did not pay Penta any 
amount of money; instead, Penta was paid through the bankruptcy court, like Hall 
was.  Finally, Jaynes testified Hall had never agreed to release Radovan or Criswell 
from their guaranty obligations.   

 
–7– 
On cross-examination, Jaynes said the maximum amount Hall could advance 
under the loan documents was $29 million, though it only ever disbursed just under 
$20 million.  He said Hall believed when it closed the loan that it would have a first-
priority lien.  Eventually, during the bankruptcy, Hall decided there was “significant 
risk as it related to the priority lien position to us.”  Jaynes said it was never 
determined whether Hall lost its “priority lien at any time.”  He said Penta signed a 
document saying that it had not begun construction at the time of the loan agreement.  
But he testified there was risk with litigating Penta’s claims.  
Ronda Tyrrell was responsible for selling the furniture, fixtures, and 
equipment Hall received from the bankruptcy estate.  She testified Hall retained 
$194,021.62 worth of furniture, fixtures, and equipment, for which she said Hall had 
not paid because they “haven’t used them.”  Tyrrell said the total value of furniture, 
fixtures, and equipment sold by Hall was $2,290,767.29.  Radovan and Criswell also 
stipulated Hall received about $545,000 for some of these assets and it retained 
others valued at about $194,000 for a total of over $720,000.   
David Epperson, Hall’s portfolio manager for the New Cal-Neva loan, 
testified that, as of July 30, 2019, Hall was owed about $8.6 million on the loan.  
According to the amortization schedule, this was the sum of the loan balance, which 
was $7,439,342.70, the interest accrued, which was $639,570.83, and the default 
interest, which was $531,365.49.  The total was $8,610,279,02.  Epperson said 
neither the $194,000 worth of retained furniture, fixtures, and equipment nor the 

 
–8– 
attorney’s fees received by Hall from the title company were reflected as credits on 
the amortization schedule.  Radovan and Criswell stipulated they had “not paid any 
amounts under their guaranty agreements.”   
Radovan testified he and Criswell, through New Cal-Neva and with investors, 
bought the Cal-Neva Lodge property in 2013.  They also bought the neighboring 
Fairwinds Estate.  Radovan said he believed Penta had executed releases related to 
any work Penta did prior to the Hall loan.  Radovan testified he pledged the 
Fairwinds Estate as additional collateral for the loan.  “Given the amount of equity 
in the property,” he said, “we never thought that we’d really be at risk on the personal 
guarantees up to 20 million.”  He said he would not have agreed to guarantee the 
loan without Penta’s representations, Hall’s title insurance, and the collateral that 
they had.  He acknowledged the guaranty agreements did not reflect that 
understanding, nor did he tell Hall that those safeguards were the only reason he 
agreed to guarantee the loan.   
Radovan said he thought the $32 million indebtedness was greater than the 
amount he had agreed to guarantee.  He testified he was shocked when Hall decided 
to settle with Penta, though he admitted on cross-examination he did not know 
whether Penta’s position was correct under the law.  Radovan did not want to sell 
the Fairwinds Estate, which he said he had previously pledged to Hall, but that “at 
that point, we were doing what the attorneys and the Court was asking us to do.”  On 
cross-examination, Radovan acknowledged Capital One had a first lien on the 

 
–9– 
Fairwinds Estate, and what Hall had was a pledge of membership interest.  Radovan 
said Hall’s attorney said Hall would come after his and Criswell’s guaranty 
agreements if they sold the Fairwinds Estate.  He said he would have resigned, but 
he obtained an “exculpation” of personal liability relating to the transfer of the Estate 
from the bankruptcy court.         
Criswell testified he delegated authority to Radovan regarding “practically 
every aspect of the Cal-Neva project.”  Like Radovan, he said he did not think he 
was liable under his guaranty agreement because he thought Hall had been “fully 
paid.”  If there was any deficiency, he said, it was because Hall decided to give away 
some of the bankruptcy sale proceeds to Penta. 
c. Findings of fact and conclusions of law 
The trial court ruled for Radovan and Criswell, ordering that Hall take 
nothing.  The court entered findings of fact and conclusions of law.  The court found 
that (1) Hall loaned about $19.5 million to New Cal-Neva; (2) the maximum 
aggregate amount of the loan Radovan and Criswell guaranteed was “never to 
exceed $29 million”; (3) Radovan and Criswell’s guaranties were based on “three 
key safeguards”: Hall was the first priority lien holder to New Cal-Neva Lodge, Hall 
had a security interest in the hotel property and the neighboring Fairwinds Estate, 
and Hall had title insurance; (4) Penta represented to Hall it had not commenced any 
work prior to the loan; (5) Penta executed a subordination agreement in favor of 
Hall; (6) Radovan and Criswell believed Penta had not begun any work under its 

 
–10– 
contract with Hall; (7) New Cal-Neva defaulted on its obligations and filed for 
bankruptcy in 2016; (8) Penta began an adversary proceeding claiming to have lien 
priority, alleging it began work before Hall’s loan was made; (9) Hall represented, 
during the bankruptcy proceedings, that it was the first priority lien holder, ahead of 
Penta; (10) Hall settled the Penta adversary proceeding by agreeing to pay Penta 
over $8 million despite representing that it was the first priority lien holder; (11) 
Radovan and Criswell were not told about the agreement before it was agreed to; 
(12) Hall received value for its payment to Penta; (13) the bankruptcy plan involved 
selling the hotel property; (14) the purchaser wanted to buy the Fairwinds Estate, 
which was not part of the bankruptcy estate, in addition to the hotel; (15) because 
the transfer of the Fairwinds Estate would expose them to liability under their 
guaranty agreements, Radovan and Criswell obtained an exculpation from the 
bankruptcy court before transferring that estate to the purchaser; (16) Radovan and 
Criswell executed “plan documents” to transfer the Fairwinds Estate to the buyer; 
(17) the secured properties sold for over $38 million; (18) that amount was more 
than sufficient to cover the entire amount owed Hall, but Hall elected to enter an 
agreement with Penta, giving it over $8 million; (19) after paying Penta, Hall 
collected at least $27 million from the bankruptcy proceeding after loaning around 
$19.5 million, creating the alleged shortfall that is the subject of this suit; (20) Hall 
also received valuable furniture, fixtures, and equipment, which it partly sold and 
partly kept; (21) Hall’s alleged deficiency was based on a claimed aggregate loan 

 
–11– 
amount of over $32 million in January 2018; (22) Hall has no damages from the 
alleged breach; (23) Hall’s claims in this case are contrary to positions taken in the 
bankruptcy proceeding; and (24) Hall’s claims are based on a loan balance of more 
than $32 million; (25) Hall is simultaneously pursuing claims against third parties, 
including its title insurer, Old Republic, to recover the same loss.   
The trial court concluded that (1) Hall cannot obtain a double recovery for the 
same injury; (2) Hall’s decision to settle with Penta, based on claims of seniority for 
work performed before Hall made its loan, materially altered the parties’ agreements 
under the loan documents; (3) the parties agreed to the loan documents based on the 
mistaken belief Penta had not begun any work on the hotel that could entitle it to a 
priority lien with seniority over Hall; (4) Hall is estopped from taking a position 
contrary to one it took in the bankruptcy proceeding; (5) Hall elected its remedy in 
the bankruptcy proceeding or otherwise waived its right to enforce the guaranty 
agreements; (6) Radovan and Criswell were exculpated from liability by the 
bankruptcy court and thus cannot be held liable for the indebtedness Hall alleges 
because the indebtedness arises, at least in part, from the lost collateral of the 
Fairwinds Estate; (7) Hall is not entitled to enforce the guaranty agreements; (8) Hall 
failed to prove any cognizable damages; (9) Hall failed to mitigate its damages; (10) 
Hall failed to prove Radovan and Criswell caused the damages alleged; and (11) 
Radovan and Criswell’s obligation was discharged by accord and satisfaction.  This 
appeal followed. 

 
–12– 
II. 
ANALYSIS 
a. Standard of review 
A party challenging the legal sufficiency of an adverse finding on an issue on 
which that party had the burden of proof at trial must demonstrate on appeal that the 
evidence conclusively established, as a matter of law, all vital facts in support of the 
issue.  Dow Chem. Co. v. Francis, 46 S.W.3d 237, 241 (Tex. 2001) (per curiam).  
First, the challenging party must show that no evidence supported the trial court’s 
finding; and then, if there was none, that the evidence conclusively established the 
finding urged by the party.  See PlainsCapital Bank v. Martin, 459 S.W.3d 550, 557 
(Tex. 2015).  “[T]he entire record must be examined to see if the contrary proposition 
is established as a matter of law.”  Sterner v. Marathon Oil Co., 767 S.W.2d 686, 
690 (Tex. 1989).   
When a party challenges the legal sufficiency of an adverse finding on an issue 
on which an opposing party had the burden of proof, the challenger must 
demonstrate on appeal that no evidence supports the adverse finding.  Exxon Corp. 
v. Emerald Oil & Gas Co., L.C., 348 S.W.3d 194, 215 (Tex. 2011).  A no-evidence 
challenge will be sustained when the record confirms: (1) a complete absence of a 
vital fact; (2) the court is barred by rules of law or of evidence from giving weight 
to the only evidence offered to prove a vital fact; (3) the evidence offered to prove a 
vital fact is no more than a mere scintilla; or (4) the evidence conclusively establishes 

 
–13– 
the opposite of the vital fact.  Ford Motor Co. v. Castillo, 444 S.W.3d 616, 620 (Tex. 
2014).  The evidence must be reviewed in the light most favorable to the verdict.  Id. 
In a case tried before the court without a jury, in which there are findings of 
fact and conclusions of law, the reviewing court will indulge every reasonable 
presumption in favor of the findings and judgment of the trial court, and no 
presumption will be indulged against the validity of the judgment.  Vickery v. 
Comm’n for Lawyer Discipline, 5 S.W.3d 241, 252 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th 
Dist.] 1999, pet. denied).  “Findings of fact entered in a case tried to a court are of 
the same force and dignity as a jury’s verdict on jury questions.”  Kahn v. Imperial 
Airport, L.P., 308 S.W.3d 432, 436–37 (Tex. App.—Dallas 2010, no pet.).  
b. Applicable law 
A guaranty creates a secondary obligation according to which the guarantor 
promises to answer for the debt of another and may be called upon to perform once 
the primary obligor has failed to.  Anderton v. Cawley, 378 S.W.3d 38, 46 (Tex. 
App.—Dallas 2012, no pet.).  A guaranty does not entitle a creditor to a double 
recovery; “it merely provides an alternative source for recovery if the primary 
obligor becomes insolvent.”  Sunbelt Sav., FSB v. Barr, 824 S.W.2d 600, 603 (Tex. 
App.—Dallas 1991), rev’d on other grounds, 837 S.W.2d 627 (Tex. 1992).  The 
elements of a breach of guaranty claim are: (1) the existence and ownership of the 
guaranty contract; (2) the terms of the note underlying the guaranty or the 
performance of the underlying contract by the holder; (3) the occurrence of the 

 
–14– 
conditions upon which liability is based; and (4) the guarantor’s failure or refusal to 
perform the guaranty’s promise.  Marshall v. Ford Motor Co., 878 S.W.2d 629, 631 
(Tex. App.—Dallas 1994, no pet.); Rivero v. Blue Keel Funding, L.L.C., 127 S.W.3d 
421, 424 (Tex. App.—Dallas 2004, no pet.).    
We construe guaranty agreements as any other contract.  See Coker v. Coker, 
650 S.W.2d 391, 393–94 (Tex. 1983).  The construction of an unambiguous contract 
is a question of law for the court.  MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. Texas Utilities 
Elec. Co., 995 S.W.2d 647, 650 (Tex. 1999).  To ascertain the entire agreement 
between the parties, separate documents executed simultaneously in the course of 
the same transaction for the same purpose are to be construed together.  Jim Walter 
Homes, Inc. v. Schuenemann, 668 S.W.2d 324, 327 (Tex. 1984).  
c. Discussion 
Hall argues it conclusively proved each element to recover on the guaranty 
agreements.  We agree.  First, the guaranties exist and are owned by Hall.  Under the 
two guaranty agreements admitted at trial, Radovan and Criswell guaranteed 
payment to Hall.  See Schubiger v. First Newport Realty Inv’rs, 601 S.W.2d 218, 
222 (Tex. App.—Dallas 1980, writ ref’d n.r.e.) (“the party offering the note is 
presumed to be the owner, especially if it is listed as payee, unless the contrary is 
shown”).  Second, it is undisputed that Hall loaned money to New Cal-Neva under 
the terms of the underlying agreement.  This was Hall’s only obligation under the 
loan agreement.  Third, New Cal-Neva defaulted on the loan and Hall eventually 

 
–15– 
demanded payment from Radovan and Criswell of the guaranteed indebtedness.  
Fourth, Radovan and Criswell then failed to pay under their guaranty agreements, as 
they stipulated at trial.  Furthermore, Hall established that the amount owed under 
the guaranties was $8,610,279.02.  This number was proved through the testimony 
of Epperson and the account statement exhibit.  See Diaz v. Multi Serv. Tech. Sols. 
Corp., No. 05-17-00462-CV, 2018 WL 6521916, at *8 (Tex. App.—Dallas Dec. 12, 
2018, no pet.) (mem. op.) (concluding that a debt amount was established through 
the testimony of a company’s director of credit and risk management as well as an 
account statement). 
Accordingly, we conclude no evidence supported the trial court’s findings that 
Hall failed to prove Radovan and Criswell’s liability, and moreover, the evidence 
conclusively established Radovan and Criswell’s liability under their guaranty 
agreements.  We set aside the trial court’s findings of fact and conclusions of law to 
the contrary. 
1. Loan amount 
In deciding otherwise, the trial court found that Radovan and Criswell never 
guaranteed any amount over $29 million.  Radovan and Criswell, in their argument 
supporting this finding, point to the loan agreement provision that the “maximum 
aggregate amount of the Loan shall not exceed the lesser of (i) 60% of the Lender 
approved acquisition and renovation costs, (ii) 60% of the appraised value of the 
Project, on an ‘as completed’ basis, or (iii) $29,000,000.00.”  Hall points to other 

 
–16– 
provisions in the agreement and the note in its argument that the $29 million figure 
was only a limit on principal advances it could make to New Cal-Neva.  For the 
reasons that follow, we agree with Hall.   
One of the recitals at the beginning of the loan agreement made clear that the 
$29 million limit related to “credit” for New Cal-Neva.  It provided that “Borrower 
has requested Lender to extend credit to Borrower in the aggregate amount of up to 
$29,000,000 (the “Loan”) . . . .” (emphasis added).  See Clark v. Walker-Kurth 
Lumber Co., 689 S.W.2d 275, 279 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 1985, writ ref’d 
n.r.e.) (“The $1000 limit was a limit on credit to be extended Clarco, Inc., and clearly 
was not intended to limit the guarantor’s liability.”).   
The definitions section of the agreement noted that the meaning of “loan” was 
“[a]s defined in [the recital].”  Thus, “loan” was defined as “credit to [New Cal-
Neva] in the aggregate amount of up to [$29 million].”  This meaning of loan was 
confirmed by its use elsewhere in the agreement.  For example, in the representations 
and warranties section of the agreement, New Cal-Neva represented that “[n]o part 
of the proceeds of the Loan will be used for the purpose of purchasing or acquiring 
any ‘margin stock’ . . . .”  So restricting the use of anything other than a proceed 
disbursed to New Cal-Neva would not make sense.  See MCI Telecommunications 
Corp. v. Tex. Utilities Elec. Co., 995 S.W.2d 647, 652 (Tex. 1999) (“When 
interpreting a contract, we examine the entire agreement in an effort to harmonize 
and give effect to all provisions of the contract so that none will be meaningless.”).   

 
–17– 
In the promissory note, New Cal-Neva promised to pay Hall “the principal 
sum of TWENTY NINE MILLION [] DOLLARS . . . or so much thereof as may be 
advanced by Lender [ ], together with interest thereon at the Note Rate [ ], and 
otherwise in strict accordance with the terms and provisions hereof.”  In other words, 
the note made a distinction between “the principal sum”—$29 million or some other 
amount—and “interest thereon at the Note Rate.”  Both were to be paid to Hall.  In 
the remedies section of the note, New Cal-Neva agreed that, in the event of default, 
Hall could demand payment on “the entire unpaid balance of the indebtedness 
evidenced by this Note,” including the outstanding principal balance, “all sums 
advanced or accrued hereunder or under any other Loan Document,” and all accrued 
but unpaid interest. 
Under their guaranty agreements, Radovan and Criswell did not merely 
guarantee the “loan” but all of the indebtedness under the loan documents.  Each 
guaranteed to Hall “the punctual payment when due . . . of the Guaranteed 
Indebtedness,” which was defined as “[a]ll of the indebtedness of Borrower under 
the Note, the Loan Agreement, the other Loan Documents . . . .”  
2. Credibility 
Radovan and Criswell argue the trial court made credibility determinations to 
which we must defer.  They argue that Hall’s evidence about the amount owed 
“varied by over $1.5 million.”  Michael Jaynes, Hall’s president, testified on cross-
examination that as of November 28, 2017, the loan balance was $24,730,742.50, 

 
–18– 
the accrued interest was $4,628,151.04, and the default interest was $2,346,677.88.  
Counsel for Radovan and Criswell then cross-examined him using an affidavit he 
submitted during the bankruptcy proceeding.  According to the affidavit, on the same 
date, the principal balance was $23,067,058.03, the contract interest was 
$4,545,526.92, and the default interest was $2,304,654.21.  Jaynes conceded these 
amounts were different from those in the account statement admitted at trial, but he 
said that there were “post-protective advances, there’s other advances that are 
outlined on that affidavit.”  He also testified on re-direct that the affidavit noted, 
“Amounts outlined above may not include expenses incurred but not yet processed 
by [Hall].”  And Hall, Jaynes further testified, incurred expenses—roughly $2 
million—during the bankruptcy proceeding.  Jaynes’s bankruptcy affidavit was not 
admitted in evidence, nor was any further evidence offered to explain the 
discrepancy in the November 28, 2017 numbers.   
We first note that none of the trial court’s findings and conclusions appear to 
be based on this discrepancy.  Second, the fact finder’s credibility determinations 
must be reasonable.  Bentley v. Bunton, 94 S.W.3d 561, 599 (Tex. 2002).  It “cannot 
ignore undisputed testimony that is clear, positive, direct, otherwise credible, free 
from contradictions and inconsistencies, and could have been readily controverted.”  
City of Keller v. Wilson, 168 S.W.3d 802, 820 (Tex. 2005).  The existence of an 
affidavit, which acknowledged not-yet-processed expenses, does not create a 
credibility problem that calls in to question Hall’s direct evidence about the amount 

 
–19– 
owed, which “could have been readily controverted.”  Cf. Chahadeh v. Jacinto Med. 
Group, P.A., 519 S.W.3d 242, 250 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2017, no pet.) 
(discrepancy between a bankruptcy claim and a guaranty claim did not create a fact 
issue when there was an uncontroverted reason for the difference).   
3. One-satisfaction rule  
The trial court concluded that Hall “cannot obtain a double recovery for the 
same injury.”  A “double recovery” exists when a plaintiff obtains more than one 
recovery for the same injury.  Waite Hill Services, Inc. v. World Class Metal Works, 
Inc., 959 S.W.2d 182, 184 (Tex. 1998).  Such a recovery is prohibited by the one-
satisfaction rule, under which “a claimant is entitled to only one recovery for any 
damages suffered.”  Nat’l City Bank of Indiana v. Ortiz, 401 S.W.3d 867, 887 (Tex. 
App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2013, pet. denied); see also Mundheim v. Lepp, No. 05-
19-01490-CV, 2021 WL 1921122, at *8 (Tex. App.—Dallas May 13, 2021, pet. 
denied) (mem. op.) (“The prohibition against double recovery is a corollary of the 
rule that a party is entitled to but one satisfaction for the injuries sustained by him.”). 
Here, there is no evidence Hall recovered anything from Radovan and 
Criswell under their guaranty agreements.  As discussed above, Hall proved it 
obtained about $27 million from the bankruptcy, which was less than the roughly 
$32 million balance at the time.   

 
–20– 
4. Affirmative defenses 
The trial court also concluded Radovan and Criswell proved numerous 
defenses, including material alteration, mistake, estoppel, waiver, accord and 
satisfaction, and failure to mitigate.  Hall argues Radovan and Criswell waived all 
possible defenses in their guaranty agreements.  Again, we must agree with Hall. 
The two guarantors agreed in section nine that their “obligations under this 
Guaranty shall not be released, discharged, diminished, impaired, reduced, or 
affected for any reason or by the occurrence of any event, including, without 
limitation . . . any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense 
available to, or discharge of, Borrower or Guarantor.”  And under section ten, they 
waived “for the benefit of Lender,” among other things, “any principles or provisions 
of law, statutory, or otherwise, which are or might be in conflict with the terms 
hereof and any legal or equitable discharge of Guarantor’s Obligations hereunder . . 
. .”   
We conclude this broad language in the guaranty agreements waived the 
affirmative defenses raised by Radovan and Criswell.  “To be effective, a waiver 
must be clear and specific.”  Moayedi v. Interstate 35/Chisam Rd., L.P., 438 S.W.3d 
1, 6 (Tex. 2014).  Simply because a waiver is “all encompassing does not mean that 
it is unclear or vague.”  Id. at 8.  Indeed, a waiver of “all possible defenses seems to 
very clearly indicate what defenses are included: all of them.”  Id.  For example, in 

 
–21– 
Holmes v. Graham Mortgage Corp., 449 S.W.3d 257, 259-60 (Tex. App.—Dallas 
2014, pet. denied), the guaranty agreement at issue specified that,  
[u]ntil the Guaranteed Obligations are fully performed, Guarantor shall 
not be released . . . by reason of the illegality or unenforceability of all 
or any part of the indebtedness represented by the Note as against 
Borrower or Guarantor based on usury or other legal defenses, statutory 
or otherwise, and Guarantor hereby to the maximum extent permitted 
by applicable law expressly waives and surrenders any defense to 
liability hereunder based upon the foregoing acts, things, agreements or 
waivers, or any of them.   
 
The guarantor raised numerous affirmative defenses, including judicial estoppel, 
payment, accord and satisfaction, unjust enrichment, cancellation of debt, illegality, 
equitable estoppel, and promissory estoppel.  Id. at 265.  “Based upon this plain 
language of the Guaranty,” this Court concluded the guarantor “waived all of these 
defenses.”  Id.   
Radovan and Criswell agreed their obligations would not be diminished by 
the occurrence of any event or any circumstance that might constitute a defense.  
They waived any principles of law, statutory or otherwise, that might be in conflict 
with the terms of their agreements.  We conclude this language in the guaranties was 
clear and specific enough to waive the affirmative defenses raised.   
Radovan and Criswell argue we must “harmonize the contract as a whole,” 
ignoring that we must also give effect to every provision.  See MCI 
Telecommunications Corp., 995 S.W.2d at 652.  The effect of these provisions was 
the waiver of the above-listed affirmative defenses to liability under the guaranty 

 
–22– 
agreements.  See In re A.B., 458 S.W.3d 207, 210 (Tex. App.—Dallas 2015, pet. 
denied) (“‘[m]utual mistake’ is an affirmative defense”); McGraw v. Brown Realty 
Co., 195 S.W.3d 271, 277 (Tex. App.—Dallas 2006, no pet.) (noting that failure to 
mitigate is an affirmative defense); Frost Nat’l Bank v. Burge, 29 S.W.3d 580, 588 
(Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2000, no pet.) (“material alteration is an 
affirmative defense”); Clark v. Cotten Schmidt, L.L.P., 327 S.W.3d 765, 770 (Tex. 
App.—Fort Worth 2010, no pet.) (“[q]uasi-estoppel is an affirmative defense”); TEX. 
R. CIV. P. 94 (“accord and satisfaction” and “waiver” are affirmative defenses).  
5. Material alteration  
Radovan and Criswell argue that even if some defenses were waived, material 
alteration was not because, if it applies, then the guarantors are no longer bound by 
the guaranties, including the waivers.  The trial court found Hall’s decision to settle 
with Penta materially altered its agreement with Radovan and Criswell.  Hall 
responds that material alteration was neither pleaded by Radovan and Criswell nor 
agued by them at trial, and that moreover, it was not proved.  Setting aside the 
questions of whether this defense was properly before the trial court or waived in the 
guaranty agreements, we conclude that Radovan and Criswell did not carry their 
burden to prove it at trial.  
A material alteration is an alteration of the underlying contract between a 
creditor and principal debtor that either injures or enhances the risk of injury to the 
guarantor.  Futerfas Family Partners v. Griffin, 374 S.W.3d 473, 478 (Tex. App.—

 
–23– 
Dallas 2012, no pet.).  “Because a material alteration is an affirmative defense, the 
burden is on the surety to demonstrate that a material alteration occurred.”  Frost 
Nat’l Bank v. Burge, 29 S.W.3d 580, 588 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2000, 
no pet.).  A guarantor may rely upon the terms and conditions of the guaranty being 
strictly followed, and if the creditor and principal debtor vary in any material degree 
from the terms of their contract, then a new contract has been formed and the 
guarantor is not bound to it.  Vastine v. Bank of Dallas, 808 S.W.2d 463, 464 (Tex. 
1991). 
Radovan and Criswell fail to identify any terms of the underlying contract that 
were altered by the parties when Hall settled with Penta during the bankruptcy.  On 
the contrary, the loan agreement allowed Hall to “procure the release and discharge 
of” mechanics’ lien claims if New-Cal Neva failed to do so.  Furthermore, the 
agreement specified that in “settling, compromising or discharging any claims for 
lien, [Hall] shall not be required to inquire into the validity or amount of any such 
claim.”  Thus, Hall not only did not “vary in any material degree from the terms of 
their contract” when it settled with Penta, it acted within the agreement’s terms, 
which did not require Hall to “inquire into the validity” of Penta’s claim.    Cf. Mann 
v. NCNB Tex. Nat. Bank, 854 S.W.2d 664, 667 (Tex. App.—Dallas 1992, no writ) 
(“Any alterations of the underlying loan were made in accordance with the terms of 
the continuing guaranty.”).  No evidence supported Radovan and Criswell’s defense 

 
–24– 
of material alteration; we set aside the trial court’s findings and conclusions to the 
contrary.  
6. Bankruptcy discharge 
The trial court also found that Radovan and Criswell were exculpated from 
liability by the bankruptcy court and therefore cannot be held liable for the 
indebtedness under their guaranty agreements.2  A discharge in bankruptcy does not 
affect the liability of a guarantor.  See, e.g., Austin Hardwoods, Inc. v. Vanden 
Berghe, 917 S.W.2d 320, 324 (Tex. App.—El Paso 1995, writ denied); Chahadeh v. 
Jacinto Med. Group, P.A., 519 S.W.3d 242, 248 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 
2017, no pet.) (“Under the terms of the guaranty agreements, Chahadeh may be held 
independently liable for the amount of the outstanding debts under the promissory 
notes without regard to the outcome of the bankruptcy proceeding.”).  Radovan and 
Criswell acknowledge this rule but argue that the bankruptcy court’s order 
specifically extinguished their liability under the guaranty agreements.  And, indeed, 
such a discharge is possible.  See Geary v. Tex. Commerce Bank, 967 S.W.2d 836, 
838 (Tex. 1998) (rejecting “argument that a bankruptcy reorganization plan cannot 
discharge the debts of someone other than the bankrupt party to someone other than 
the bankrupt party”).  Hall responds, among other ways, that the bankruptcy court’s 
 
2 We will assume for the sake of argument that this defense was not waived.  But see TEX. R. CIV. P. 
94 (“discharge in bankruptcy” is an affirmative defense).   

 
–25– 
“limited exculpation” did not release Radovan and Criswell from their liability under 
the guaranty agreements.   
As described above, the bankruptcy court ordered “that there shall be no 
personal liability for any individual who executes any documents . . . necessary to 
effectuate the transfer of the Purchased Assets . . . to the Buyer, and any such 
individual is exculpated from any personal liability that might otherwise arise on 
account of the execution of such Plan Documents.”  In other words, anyone who 
executed documents transferring the hotel and the Fairwinds Estate to the buyer was 
shielded from any liability arising from the execution of those documents.   
Radovan and Criswell do not explain in their briefing how their liability under 
the guaranties arose from the execution of plan documents in the bankruptcy court.  
Of course, their liability under the guaranty agreements arose under the guaranty 
agreements and the other loan documents.  While the transfer of the Fairwinds Estate 
to the buyer perhaps motivated Hall to pursue Radovan and Criswell on their 
guaranties, as they indicated at trial, their liability under the guaranty agreements 
cannot be said to have arisen on account of the transfer.  The language in the 
bankruptcy order makes this case unlike, for example, the release involved in 
Republic Supply Co. v. Shoaf, 815 F.2d 1046, 1047 (5th Cir. 1987) (emphasis added), 
where “the bankruptcy court confirmed a reorganization plan [ ] that released a 
guaranty executed by the appellant, Dr. Joseph Shoaf, in favor of the creditor, now 
plaintiff-appellee, Republic Supply Company[.]”   

 
–26– 
Moreover, no “plan documents” were admitted at trial.  Thus, there was no 
evidence before the trial court about what liability was extinguished by the 
bankruptcy court because the plan documents remained an unknown.  Under 
questioning from Hall, Radovan first said in a circular way that the plan documents 
“were a group of documents that made up the plan documents,” but later admitted 
he did not know how “plan documents” was defined in the bankruptcy court’s order.  
We conclude that Radovan and Criswell failed to present any evidence their guaranty 
agreements were released by the bankruptcy court.  
7. Retained furniture, fixtures, and equipment 
Finally, Radovan and Criswell argue Hall failed to carry its burden because it 
admitted it had not sold some of the furniture, fixtures, and equipment it received in 
the bankruptcy, and it did not deduct the value of those assets from Radovan and 
Criswell’s indebtedness.  Hall responds that they waived any right to complain about 
how it treated the collateral when they agreed their obligations would not be 
diminished by “any impairment of any collateral securing” the loan or by the “failure 
of Lender to sell any collateral securing any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations in 
a commercially reasonable manner or as otherwise required by law[.]”   
Furthermore, under section five of the guaranties, Radovan and Criswell 
agreed that Hall was not required to enforce its remedies against any collateral before 
demanding payment from them: 

 
–27– 
In the event of default in payment or performance of the Guaranteed 
Obligations, or any part thereof, when such Guaranteed Obligations 
become due, whether by its terms, by acceleration, or otherwise, 
Guarantor shall promptly pay the amount due thereon to Lender without 
notice or demand, of any kind or nature, in lawful money of the United 
States of America or perform the obligations to be performed 
hereunder, and it shall not be necessary for Lender in order to enforce 
such 
payment 
and 
performance 
by 
Guarantor 
first, 
or 
contemporaneously, to institute suit or exhaust remedies against 
Borrower or others liable on the Guaranteed Obligations, or to enforce 
any rights, remedies, powers, privileges or benefits of Lender against 
any property covered by a lien created under the Mortgage or any other 
security or collateral which shall ever have been given to secure the 
Guaranteed Obligations. 
The Supreme Court of Texas looked at similar guaranty-agreement language in Fed. 
Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Coleman, 795 S.W.2d 706 (Tex. 1990).  The agreements there 
specified that “[t]he Creditor shall not be required to pursue any other remedies 
before invoking the benefits of this guaranty, especially it shall not be required to 
exhaust its remedies against endorsers, collateral and other security.”  Id. at 707.  
The court concluded that “the guaranties expressly relieved the creditor from seeking 
to satisfy its debt from the collateral at all.”  Id. at 710.  The lender, under the 
guaranties, had “the right to ignore the collateral and obtain a judgment against [the 
guarantors] for the full amount of the debt, even if the collateral might have been 
sold to satisfy part of that debt.”  Id.   
So, too, here: the guaranties relieved Hall from seeking to satisfy its debt from 
the collateral.  We therefore conclude that, “[i]f Texas law implies a duty to dispose 
of all collateral before suing on a guaranty,” Radovan and Criswell “expressly 

 
–28– 
waived [their] right[s] to insist on it.”  See SEI Bus. Sys., Inc. v. Bank One Tex., N.A., 
803 S.W.2d 838, 840 (Tex. App.—Dallas 1991, no writ).   
III. 
CONCLUSION 
We sustain Hall’s first five appellate issues, reverse the trial court’s judgment, 
and render judgment that Hall recover $8,610,279.02 plus post-judgment interest.  
We remand to the trial court to determine post-judgment interest.  Because we render 
judgment for Hall, we do not reach its sixth issue regarding the admissibility of the 
bankruptcy court order.  See TEX. R. APP. P. 47.1. 
 
 
 
191412f.p05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/Ken Molberg/ 
KEN MOLBERG 
JUSTICE 
 

 
–29– 
Court of Appeals 
Fifth District of Texas at Dallas 
JUDGMENT 
 
HALL CA-NV, LLC, Appellant 
 
No. 05-19-01412-CV          V. 
 
ROBERT RADOVAN AND 
WILLIAM CRISWELL, Appellees 
 
 
On Appeal from the 134th Judicial 
District Court, Dallas County, Texas 
Trial Court Cause No. DC-18-02395. 
Opinion delivered by Justice 
Molberg. Justices Carlyle and Smith 
participating. 
 
 
In accordance with this Court’s opinion of this date, the judgment of the trial 
court is REVERSED and judgment is RENDERED that:  
 
HALL CA-NV, LLC recover from appellees ROBERT RADOVAN 
and WILLIAM CRISWELL actual damages of $8,610,279.02 plus 
post-judgment interest.   
 
We REMAND to the trial court for a calculation of post-judgment interest. 
 
 
It is ORDERED that appellant HALL CA-NV, LLC recover its costs of this 
appeal from appellees ROBERT RADOVAN and WILLIAM CRISWELL. 
 
Judgment entered this 25th day of May 2022. 
 
 
 
 
