Judgment rendered January 16, 2019. 
Application for rehearing may be filed 
within the delay allowed by Art. 2166, 
La. C.C.P. 
 
No. 52,454-CA 
 
COURT OF APPEAL 
SECOND CIRCUIT 
STATE OF LOUISIANA 
 
 
* * * * * 
 
YASHEKA JACK 
 
Plaintiff-Appellee 
 
versus 
 
ELDORADO CASINO SHREVEPORT 
JOINT VENTURE, L.L.C., ELDORADO 
SHREVEPORT #1, L.L.C. AND 
ELDORADO SHREVEPORT #2, L.L.C. 
 
 
Defendants-Appellants 
 
 
* * * * * 
 
Appealed from the 
First Judicial District Court for the 
Parish of Caddo, Louisiana 
Trial Court No. 580048 
 
Honorable Ramon Lafitte, Judge 
 
* * * * * 
 
BLANCHARD, WALKER, O’QUIN 
Counsel for Appellants 
& ROBERTS, APLC 
By:  Jerry Edwards 
 
ERNEST R. PERRY, JR. 
  
 
 
Counsel for Appellee 
 
FRISCHHERTZ, POULLIARD, 
  
FRISCHHERTZ & IMPASTATO, LLC 
By:  Anthony Joseph Impastato 
        Vincent P. Impastato, Sr. 
        Dominick Frank Impastato, III 
 
 
* * * * * 
 
Before PITMAN, COX, and STEPHENS, JJ. 
 

 
 
STEPHENS, J.   
Defendants, Eldorado Casino Shreveport Joint Venture, L.L.C., 
Eldorado Shreveport #1, L.L.C., and Eldorado Shreveport #2, L.L.C. 
(collectively “Eldorado”), appeal the denial of a motion in limine and 
judgment in the First Judicial District Court, Parish of Caddo, State of 
Louisiana, awarding damages to plaintiff, Yasheka Jack (“Jack”).  For the 
following reasons, we affirm the judgment of the trial court. 
FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
This matter arises out of injuries sustained by Jack at the Eldorado 
Casino in Shreveport, Louisiana, and the subsequent suit for damages filed 
against Eldorado.  Jack’s injury occurred on November 9, 2013, when a 
beverage server employed by Eldorado, Denise Ramone, spilled hot coffee 
on Jack, which caused Jack to twist suddenly out of the chair on which she 
was seated and injure her back in the process.  Jack filed a petition for 
damages against Eldorado on October 3, 2014.  Eldorado answered and 
asserted several affirmative defenses, notably which Jack’s injuries were 
proximately caused by a person or entity other than Eldorado.  
Prior to trial, Eldorado filed a motion in limine seeking to exclude from 
evidence the portions of Jack’s medical expenses that were written off, 
claiming Jack never actually incurred or had an obligation to pay the full 
amount of the expenses, and thus, the collateral source rule does not apply.  
The trial court denied Eldorado’s motion, holding the collateral source rule 
does apply to write-offs negotiated by Jack’s private insurance provider, to 
whom she had paid monthly premiums.  Accordingly, Jack’s medical records 
that were admitted into evidence during the trial were redacted to exclude the 

 
amount of the insurance payments and write-offs and, thus, reflected the full 
amount of medical expenses charged to Jack.  Following the ruling on its 
motion, Eldorado failed to proffer into evidence any proof or information 
regarding the specific amounts of the write-offs. 
Trial commenced on September 11, 2017, wherein 11 witnesses 
testified.  Following the conclusion of testimony, Jack moved for a directed 
verdict on comparative fault regarding Eldorado’s affirmative defense of 
negligence on the part of an unknown patron.  The motion was denied.  
On September 14, 2017, a unanimous 12-person jury found Ramone 
was negligent, her negligence was a proximate cause of Jack’s injuries, and 
the unknown patron was not negligent.  The jury assessed 100% of the fault 
to Ramone and made the following award to Jack:  
Past medical expenses . . . . . . . . . . . .  $237,124.79 
Future medical expenses . . . . . . . . . .    577,698.00 
Past lost wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     51,646.00 
Future lost wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    317,460.00 
Past physical pain and suffering . . . . .     40,000.00 
Future physical pain and suffering . . .     60,000.00 
Past mental pain and suffering . . . . . .     75,000.00 
Future mental pain and suffering . . . .     50,000.00 
Past loss of enjoyment of life . . . . . . .     10,000.00 
Future loss of enjoyment of life . . . . .     10,000.00 
Disability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             0.00 
Scarring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,000.00 
 
The trial court rendered judgment in the total amount of $1,429,928.70.1 
Eldorado subsequently filed a motion for judgment notwithstanding 
the verdict, which was denied.  In ruling on the motion, the trial court noted 
that with regard to the issues of both fault and future lost wages, the jury had 
                                          
1The total amount of damages provided in the trial court’s judgment does not 
mathematically align with the individual awards on the jury’s verdict form.  The correct 
total sum of all the damages awarded to Jack is $1,429,928.79.  

 
simply made a credibility call which it would not disturb on the basis of its 
own opinion of the evidence.  Furthermore, in denying the portion of 
Eldorado’s motion that requested a reduction to the jury’s award for past 
medical expenses in an amount equal to the write-offs, the trial court noted 
there was no evidence in the record regarding the specific amounts of the 
write-offs; therefore, even if it were inclined to reduce the award by those 
amounts, it would not “guestimate” what those written-off amounts would 
be. 
Eldorado now appeals the judgment of the trial court and asserts three 
assignments of error pertaining to (1) the assessment of 100% fault to 
Ramone; (2) the award for future lost wages; and (3) the trial court’s 
application of the collateral source rule to the insurer-negotiated write-offs. 
DISCUSSION 
Eldorado’s first two assignments of error involve the jury’s 
assessment of the credibility of witnesses.  When findings are based on 
determinations regarding the credibility of witnesses, the manifest error 
standard demands great deference to the trial court’s findings.  Robinson v. 
Board of Supervisors for Univ. of La. Sys., 2016-2145 (La. 6/29/17), 225 So. 
3d 424; Fuller v. Bissell, 51,759 (La. App. 2 Cir. 1/10/18), 245 So. 3d 1169.  
Under manifest error review, the trial court’s factual findings can be 
reversed only if the appellate court finds, based on the entire record, no 
reasonable factual basis for the factual finding and the factfinder is clearly 
wrong.  Baker v. PHC-Minden L.P., 2014-2243 (La. 5/5/15), 167 So. 3d 
528; Fuller, supra.  Where documents or objective evidence so contradict 
the witness’s story, or the story itself is so internally inconsistent or 
implausible on its face, that a reasonable factfinder would not credit the 

 
witness’s story, then the court of appeal may find manifest error or plain 
wrongness even in a finding based on credibility.  But where such factors are 
not present, and the factfinder’s finding is based on its decision to credit the 
testimony of one of two or more witnesses, that finding can virtually never 
be manifestly erroneous or clearly wrong.  Rosell v. ESCO, 549 So. 2d 840 
(La. 1989); Johnson v. Tucker, 51,723 (La. App. 2 Cir. 11/15/17), 243 So. 
3d 1237, writs denied, 2017-2075, 2017-2073 (La. 2/9/18), 236 So. 3d 1262 
and 1266. 
Assessment of Fault 
In its first assignment of error, Eldorado asserts the jury erred in 
assessing 100% of fault to Ramone, thereby refusing to accept as credible 
the uncontradicted testimony of Ramone regarding the cause of the accident.  
We disagree.  A trial court’s findings regarding percentages of fault are 
factual, and will not be disturbed on appeal unless clearly wrong.  Purvis v. 
Grant Parish School Bd., 2013-1424 (La. 2/14/14), 144 So. 3d 922, 926. 
Overview of relevant testimony 
Jack testified that on the night her injury occurred, she had met her 
two aunts, Mary Williams and Tolonia Bryant, at the Eldorado Casino.  The 
three were sitting in chairs at the penny slot machines.  Jack and Williams 
were sitting side by side with an empty chair between them, while Bryant 
was sitting across the aisle with her back to the machine, facing Jack and 
Williams.  Jack stated there was suddenly a very hot sensation going down 
her back, saturating her pants and chair.  She jumped out of the chair, turned 
and threw her body out to get her back off the chair.  Jack identified the 
Eldorado waitress seated at the defense table, Ramone, as the waitress who 
spilled the hot coffee on her.  Jack stated Ramone gave no explanation 

 
regarding what caused her to spill the drinks on Jack.  Ramone just kept 
apologizing and asked if Jack wanted her to get her supervisor.  Jack 
testified that no one who appeared to be a fellow Eldorado patron 
approached afterwards.  On cross-examination, Jack testified that at the time 
her injury occurred, she did not see what caused Ramone to spill the tray of 
drinks because she was looking in the other direction and she does not know 
if someone bumped into her or not.  
 
Ramone then testified on cross-examination that it is part of her 
responsibility as a cocktail waitress at the Eldorado Casino to organize 
drinks on her tray using a certain method in order to ensure the tray is well 
balanced and avoid spilling the drinks.  This method requires that in the 
event there is hot coffee on the tray, it should be placed in the dead center 
with the heavier drinks immediately around it and the lighter drinks along 
the edges of the tray.  Ramone further testified it was her responsibility and 
part of her training to be aware of rowdy patrons and prepared to avoid their 
sudden movements.  She stated patrons were expected to be rowdy, and it 
was normal and reasonable for them to make sudden movements such as 
jumping out of their chair.  
Regarding the moments leading up to Jack’s injury, Ramone testified 
the coffee still had steam rolling off it, and while it started out in the center 
of her tray, as is protocol, she was not sure whether it was still in the center 
of the tray at the time of the accident because she had delivered several 
drinks and picked up several empty glasses since originally organizing her 
tray.  She testified that when she entered the aisle, Jack was seated on the 
left side and there was another patron whose identity is unknown seated on 
the right side.  Ramone testified the unknown patron stood from her chair 

 
causing the chair to slide backward and the back of the chair to bump into 
Ramone’s right hip.  This bump then caused her to lose her balance and the 
balance of the tray and stumble forward, to the left, toward Jack.  This 
movement caused the drinks on her tray to topple over in a domino effect 
and the hot coffee to spill over the side of the tray onto Jack.  Ramone 
explained that the unknown patron’s action of pushing her chair back was 
neither unusual nor unreasonable, but there was no way for her to anticipate 
the bump and avoid it.  She testified that following the accident, the 
unknown patron attempted to help her clean up the mess made by the spilled 
drinks.   
Surveillance video of the incident was played for Ramone, and still 
shots from the video were provided.  She testified that the video quality was 
not clear, but she was able to identify the position of the parties leading up to 
and after the accident.  However, Ramone testified the video did not show 
the accident but showed both immediately before and after the accident; in 
other words, the casino’s surveillance video does not contain the precise 
footage which should have captured the incident.  On direct examination, 
Ramone testified she did not get the name or contact information of the 
unknown patron because she thought it was unnecessary.  
 
Mary Williams testified that she was with Jack at the casino on the 
night her injury occurred; Williams’ sister, Tolonia Bryant, was also with 
them.  Williams identified the still shot of the Eldorado surveillance video 
from before the accident and confirmed where she and Jack were sitting but 
testified she could not recall exactly where Bryant was sitting and that the 
quality of the photo was not clear enough to identify each individual.  
Williams also testified she did not see anyone who was not an Eldorado 

 
employee come up to the scene following the accident and indicate being the 
cause of the accident.  On cross-examination, Williams confirmed she did 
not see what caused Ramone to spill her tray of drinks. 
 
Tolonia Bryant testified that she was at the Eldorado Casino with 
Williams and Jack on the night Jack was injured, and she was sitting behind 
them, across the aisle.  She had her back to the slot machine and was sitting 
facing Williams and Jack.  Bryant testified she saw Ramone stumble and 
spill the drinks on Jack.  Bryant further testified she did not see anyone 
bump into Ramone or anyone come up after the accident and apologize or 
indicate they caused Ramone to trip and fall.  She was reading a book while 
talking with Jack and Williams and had looked down a little before the 
accident, but when she looked up, she saw Ramone walking toward them 
with a tray of drinks.  She never saw anyone bump into Ramone, whom she 
described as just suddenly tripping.  On cross-examination, Bryant testified 
that while she did not see anyone bump into Ramone, she does not know if 
someone did. 
Analysis 
 
The record in this case demonstrates the jury was not manifestly 
erroneous or clearly wrong when it determined Eldorado was 100% at fault 
for the injuries sustained by Jack at the Eldorado Casino.  Eldorado asserts 
Ramone’s testimony was uncontradicted and does not support a finding of 
100% fault against Eldorado, yet the surveillance video and testimony of 
other witnesses did contradict Ramone’s assertions—both that she was 
bumped into by an unknown patron which caused her to lose her balance and 
led to the accident and that an unknown patron attempted to help clean up 
after Ramone’s tray spilled onto Jack.  Bryant and Williams both testified 

 
that while they saw Ramone stumble and spill the coffee on Jack, they saw 
no one bump into her.  Furthermore, they both, as well as Jack, testified they 
saw no other patron take responsibility for causing Ramone to stumble or 
attempt to assist after the accident.  Their testimony was not so implausible 
on its face that a reasonable factfinder would not credit it, nor was it 
contradicted by any objective evidence.  In fact, the theoretically objective 
surveillance video provided by Eldorado that could have potentially 
supported Ramone’s testimony, instead, further weighs against Eldorado’s 
credibility due to its poor quality and suspicious omission of the accident 
altogether.  
We note Eldorado assigned error to the jury’s assessment of 100% 
fault to Eldorado but did not assign error to the jury’s finding that the 
unknown patron was not negligent.  Regardless, the jury clearly found Jack 
and her witnesses to be more credible and resolved conflicts of testimony in 
Jack’s favor.  Its finding that Eldorado was 100% at fault for the injuries 
sustained by Jack, and that the unknown patron was not, is reasonable in 
light of the record reviewed in its entirety.  This assignment of error is 
without merit. 
Award for Future Lost Wages 
Eldorado asserts the jury erred in awarding future lost wages in light 
of overwhelming evidence that Jack could return to work with 
accommodations.  We disagree.  Awards for loss of earning capacity are 
inherently speculative and insusceptible of calculation with mathematical 
certainty.  Shephard v. AIX Energy, Inc., 51,965 (La. App. 2 Cir. 5/23/18), 
249 So. 3d 194, 211, writ denied, 2018-1266 (La. 11/5/18), 255 So. 3d 1050.  
The trier of fact is accorded great discretion in assessing damages for loss of 

 
earning capacity, but there must be a factual basis in the record for the 
award.  Id.  
Overview of relevant testimony 
Jack testified that at the time of her injury, she was the office manager 
at Velocity Care, a medical office where she had been employed for two 
years.  She earned a yearly salary of approximately $33,000 and was a single 
mother of three.  Jack’s prior work history includes working in a hospital as 
a unit clerk, patient care technician, and certified nursing assistant, as well as 
a receptionist, medical coder, and customer service representative at a retail 
store.  She has a high school diploma and at the time of her injury was 
enrolled in community college pursuing an associate degree in business 
administration.  Ultimately, however, Jack failed those classes due to the 
pain she suffered from her injury at Eldorado.   
Jack testified she worked 12-hour shifts at Velocity Care and had no 
difficulty performing work duties prior to her injury.  Her duties included 
working side-by-side with the front desk staff and managing them; meeting 
and greeting patients; answering the phone and placing calls; sitting for long 
periods of time to send out emails to billing companies, supervisors, and 
owners; coordinating the staffing schedule; putting away supplies; moving 
charts; retrieving patients from cars and helping them into a wheelchair; 
taking vital signs; and making beds.  She testified she did whatever needed 
to be done.  
In November 2015, due to her continued pain and upon the 
recommendation of Dr. Euby Kerr, M.D., at the Spine Institute, Jack 
underwent a two-level, 360-degree lumbar fusion surgery.  Jack had three 
discs removed from her spine, which were replaced with artificial discs that 

 
were screwed into her spine.  Since the surgery, Jack continues to experience 
pain and pressure in her lower back.  She explained her pain level increases 
as her activity level increases and stated she continues to receive injections 
in her sacroiliac joints.  Jack further testified that as of the date of trial, she 
had not been released by her doctor to return to work but she would if she 
could because she enjoyed her job, was good at it, and needed the income.  
Jack testified that she currently experiences difficulty getting 
comfortable, either sitting, standing, or lying down, and constantly has to 
shift.  She testified her injury prevented her from performing her previous 
duties at Velocity Care due to the extended periods of sitting, standing, 
bending, lifting, and reaching that were required and the pain those activities 
caused her.  In order to do her job at Velocity Care, Jack needed someone to 
help with those tasks, which assistance, she testified, she probably would not 
be able to get.  Jack stated it made no sense for her to be there, basically, 
because Velocity Care would have to have someone shadow her when, 
instead, they could just pay that one person to do the job. 
 
On cross-examination, Jack testified she last worked in October 2015, 
has not been released by Dr. Kerr to return to work, and had not seen Dr. 
Kerr since December 2016.  She confirmed she never asked her employer 
for any help or accommodations to continue work and had not applied for 
any other jobs.  She did testify, however, that she had applied for Social 
Security disability and had been denied.  
 
The video deposition of Dr. Kerr was taken during litigation and 
played for the jury at trial.  He was accepted as an expert in the field of 
orthopedic surgery with a specialty in treatment of spine damage.  Dr. Kerr 
testified he has treated Jack and first saw her as a patient in July 2014.  Dr. 

 
Kerr reviewed MRIs of Jack’s spine, performed a physical examination and 
diagnostic testing, and subsequently diagnosed her with a disk bulge at L5-
S1 and an annular tear at L4-5.  Dr. Kerr explained his ultimate course of 
treatment was to perform a 2-level 360-degree lumbar fusion on Jack, which 
he accomplished on November 20, 2015.  He discussed the nature and 
mechanism of the pain caused by Jack’s spinal injuries.  He testified the 
surgery was successful and without it, Jack’s tear and bulge would not have 
healed on its own, but normally this type of procedure only provides about 
70-75% relief.  Following the procedure, Dr. Kerr recommended Jack 
undergo sacroiliac injections and also referred her to pain management.  He 
testified Jack was still experiencing pain associated with her injury at the 
Eldorado Casino and she may need another surgery in the future to address 
it. 
The video deposition of Dr. Larry Stokes, Ph.D., was taken during 
litigation and played for the jury at trial.  He was accepted as an expert in 
both vocational rehabilitation counseling and life care planning.  Dr. Stokes 
performed a vocational rehabilitation assessment and life care plan on Jack.  
He conducted a two-hour interview with her and approximately two hours of 
testing.  He testified regarding Jack’s education and job experience, as well 
as her reported pain and mobility and the fact she has to rely on her children 
for help completing activities of daily living, including personal care and 
household work.  He reported he had reviewed Jack’s medical records, the 
deposition of Dr. Kerr, and the report by the vocational rehabilitation 
counselor hired by Eldorado.  Dr. Stokes testified he had spoken with Dr. 
Kerr on the phone regarding Jack’s condition.  Dr. Stokes performed an 
employability assessment to determine what kind of jobs Jack could perform 

 
before and after the accident and concluded the job she had at Velocity Care, 
where she earned $33,000 per year including benefits, was the highest form 
of employment she had held and she was earning at her capability/capacity 
while there.  He further testified that no doctor has released her to work, and 
Dr. Kerr reported to him that Jack was in too much pain to work.  Dr. Stokes 
testified he did not believe Jack was employable at the time of trial and more 
likely than not, she would not be able to return to work in her capacity as an 
office manager at Velocity Care.  He explained Jack currently has no earning 
capacity because no one has said she can go back to any kind of work, so she 
was looking at a 100% loss in earning for the remainder of her work life 
expectancy.  
When asked to look on the “bright side,” Dr. Stokes testified that 
hopefully, the most Jack could probably do would be part-time, light office 
management work, at approximately 20 hours per week.  He provided a list 
of jobs he felt Jack could possibly perform part-time in the future, which 
included an office clerk or receptionist, office manager, administrative 
assistant, telephone clerk, and/or ticket taker.  He further testified her 
earning capacity at any of these type of jobs would be between $8,507 and 
$11,242, which would, at the most optimistic estimate, still give Jack a loss 
of earning capacity between $21,757 and $24,492 per year.  Dr. Stokes 
explained that since Jack was still in treatment and trying to improve as well 
as get additional education, he did not know what Jack’s ultimate outcome 
would be, particularly if she could get to a point to where she could work in 
the future.  He further testified that upon reviewing the report of Dr. Carl 
Goodman, the independent medical examiner hired by Eldorado, he noted 
Dr. Goodman did not opine whether or not Jack could work.  Dr. Stokes 

 
stated he had also reviewed the report of Steve Allison, the physical therapist 
hired by Eldorado to perform the functional capacity evaluation (“FCE”) of 
Jack, and the report ultimately concluded Jack did not have the residual 
functional capacity to safely perform full or unrestricted light or sedentary 
work.  He explained there are only five categories of work: sedentary, light, 
medium, heavy, and very heavy, and that sedentary is the easiest physically 
demanding work, mostly sitting, some standing and walking, with very little 
lifting.  He explained Allison’s report confirmed the beliefs he already 
had—Jack would have to have significant modifications to her work setting 
to be able to work regularly and maintain work.  Dr. Stokes testified that 
Allison’s report indicated he repeatedly had to stop the test he was 
administrating on Jack because she could not safely perform the task.  Dr. 
Stokes stated that ultimately both Allison’s and Dr. Goodman’s reports 
supported his own position regarding Jack. 
On cross-examination in his deposition, Dr. Stokes testified that he is 
not a medical doctor and did not perform a physical examination of Jack.  
He stated his opinion of Jack’s physical restrictions was based on the 
information provided to him by Dr. Kerr and Jack and on the results of the 
FCE performed by Allison, but he did not have an independent opinion 
about how long Jack’s physical limitations may last.   
The video deposition of John W. Theriot was taken during litigation 
and played for the jury at trial.  Theriot was accepted as an expert in forensic 
economics, forensic accounting, and economic loss valuation.  He testified 
in his deposition that he had reviewed Jack’s earning records from 2008 to 
2016, Dr. Stokes’ report, Jack’s deposition, and the deposition of Dr. Kerr, 
and then compiled an economic loss report based on that information.  The 

 
report calculated how much of her salary Jack lost and would lose in the 
future due to her injury.  Theriot testified that to calculate Jack’s future lost 
income, he used a generally accepted table that was published in the Journal 
of Forensic Economics, which calculated work life expectancy based on 
information provided.  Theriot testified that in Jack’s case, her work life 
expectancy was 19.24 years, which he thought was very reasonable because 
Jack was only 41 at the time of trial.  He then multiplied 19.24 by the base 
wage of $39,766, which was the salary Dr. Stokes reported Jack would have 
been able to earn had she not been injured and could have completed her 
associate degree.   
This method brought Theriot to the conclusion that if Jack was unable 
to return to work, considering discounts to account for investment earnings 
and inflation, her future lost earnings would be $692,802.  Using the same 
method applied to the amount of $11,242 that Dr. Stokes had reported Jack 
could earn working 20 hours a week, Theriot also calculated that Jack would 
sustain a future loss of earnings totaling $496,945 if she were able to return 
to work part time.  Likewise, Theriot testified that assuming Jack could 
return to work full time making $22,485 per year, her future lost earnings 
would be $301,069.  Using the base wage of $33,000 instead of the base 
wage Jack could have earned had she completed her associate degree, 
Theriot concluded Jack’s future lost wages would be: $574,925 if she did not 
return to work; $379,067 if she returned part time making $11,242; and, 
$183,192 if she returned full time earning $22,485.  Theriot testified the 
work life table he used was the standard and most recent table, at five years 
old.  Theriot took issue with Eldorado’s economist, who instead, used the 
average of eight different tables, including the one Theriot used, but who 

 
also included a table that was 20 years old and four others that ranged from 
11 to 16 years old.  Theriot testified on cross-examination in his deposition 
that when making his calculations for future lost wages, he deferred to the 
vocational experts with regard to whether or not Jack could return to work. 
 
The defense’s witnesses then testified.  Dr. Carl Goodman was 
accepted as an expert in orthopedic medicine and testified he was hired by 
Eldorado to perform an independent medical examination of Jack.  He 
testified the methodology of his independent medical examinations consists 
of taking a history from the patient, conducting a physical examination, and 
reviewing medical records. He testified that it was his opinion Jack could 
have suffered a small annular tear in her back as a result of the subject 
incident.  He explained that while he believed Jack was obviously having 
pain, other than medication for the pain, he did not believe she needed any 
more treatment, including but not limited to a future surgery or steroid 
injections. 
 
On cross-examination, Dr. Goodman testified that due to the back 
injuries Jack sustained at the Eldorado Casino, Jack would have difficulty 
doing her job working as an office manager at Velocity Care, sitting or 
standing for eight hours at a time, and turning quickly.  As a result, she 
would likely miss time from work in the future.  He agreed that to a 
reasonable medical probability, Jack sustained a permanent injury as a result 
of the accident at the Eldorado Casino.  
 
Dr. Steve Allison was accepted as an expert in functional capacity 
evaluations and testified that his FCE of Jack included an interview 
regarding how the injury occurred, symptoms, and treatment; a review of 
multiple documents including medical records from Dr. Kerr and Dr. 

 
Goodman, MRI, X-ray, and CT reports, a deposition report from Velocity 
Care, and an economic loss report; a physical examination which consisted 
of tests measuring range of motion, reflexes, muscle atrophy, and sensation; 
and, a functional test which assessed safe tolerances to do things such as lift, 
push, and pull objects of various weights.  Dr. Allison testified he found 
Jack had a moderate limp, all four motions tested with the lumbar spine were 
limited and painful, and she had diminished sensation in her left leg.   
Dr. Allison further testified Jack did have some limitations evident in 
the functional test, but he thought she could return to work full time 
performing sedentary to light work with restrictions.  He testified Jack could 
tolerate sitting a maximum of 5.25 hours a day but not for more than one 
hour at a time without getting up and walking around.  Dr. Allison testified 
that with accommodations, Jack could perform the job of office manager, 
but the physical demands of a specific occupation often vary from job to job.  
He testified that as Jack described her duties at Velocity Care, she was 
performing medium work rather than sedentary or light, which he attributed, 
in part, to her account that she was required to move boxes of paper.  He 
testified that to return to her former job at Velocity Care, Jack would need 
accommodations for sitting, standing, walking, carrying and lifting boxes of 
paper, pushing and pulling a 4-wheel cart with boxes of files, and for 
physical activities such as stooping, squatting, and kneeling.  He further 
testified that Jack’s description of her duties at Velocity Care was consistent 
neither with his own experience of the duties of an office manager nor with 
how the dictionary of occupational titles classifies that occupation.  Dr. 
Allison also testified Dr. Kerr typically accepted his recommendation as to 
whether one of his patients was able to return to work. 

 
 
On cross-examination, Dr. Allison testified that based on the physical 
demands of office manager contained in the dictionary of occupational titles, 
Jack did not have the functional ability to perform 33% of the general job of 
office manager.  However, he testified that based on the information 
provided by Jack regarding her duties as office manager at Velocity Care, 
specifically, she did not have the functional ability to perform 60% of her 
former duties at Velocity Care.  He testified that more likely than not, Jack 
had reached maximum functional improvement with her injuries and the 
work restrictions being placed on her should be considered permanent.  
 
Kristan Gilliam testified that she was the Director of Oversight and 
Management for Velocity Care.  She testified she worked with Jack and at 
that time, she was the practice administrator and Jack’s direct supervisor.  
She described Jack’s general duties to be helping to train the receptionists, 
be there for the receptionists if they need anything, and taking care of any 
patient-related issues which could involve billing with their insurance or 
medical records.  On cross-examination, Gilliam testified Jack was a 
reliable, prompt, well-respected employee who had good relationships with 
other employees and had never been reprimanded or received an 
unsatisfactory evaluation.  
 
Kenneth Brister was accepted as an expert in vocational rehabilitation 
and testified that he was hired by Eldorado to perform an assessment of 
Jack.  He stated his assessment included a review of Jack’s medical records, 
her Social Security Administration records, and multiple deposition 
transcripts, including that of Jack.  He also interviewed Jack and obtained 
information regarding her educational background, work history, hobbies, 
special interests, details of the injury and medical treatment since, and 

 
problems she was continuing to have from a physical standpoint.  After 
gathering pertinent information and reviewing pertinent documents, Brister 
then completed a transferable skills analysis to determine what types of jobs 
Jack would be able to do in the future based on the information obtained.  
Next, he conducted some limited vocational research to determine, based on 
the transferable skills analysis, what types of wages would be available to 
Jack in her geographical location.   
Brister testified that based on his review of Dr. Allison’s report and 
the medical information he understood to come from Dr. Kerr, it was his 
opinion Jack should be able to return to work in job positions designated as 
sedentary to light duty, with some limitations in both of those areas.  He 
testified she could find a position that accommodated her limitations or 
engage in self-accommodating activities such as asking a coworker for 
assistance, or standing for a few minutes after sitting for a while.  Brister 
testified the job of office manager typically would provide the flexibility to 
assign certain activities to other coworkers or do self-accommodating 
activities.  He also stated employers have become more willing to provide 
accommodations to their employees.  He testified that other than office 
manager, Jack could also perform the job of receptionist, unit clerk, and 
medical coder, which are all jobs Jack held prior to working as an office 
manager at Velocity Care.  Additionally, he testified Jack could work as a 
medical secretary, general secretary, appointment clerk, information clerk, 
hospital admitting clerk, billing clerk, insurance clerk, loan clerk, and in 
dispatcher type positions. 
 
On cross-examination, Brister testified he did not do a life care plan 
for Jack and had no opinion as to her future medical needs.  He stated that 

 
while he had reviewed Dr. Goodman’s deposition, he was not present for his 
live testimony at trial and did not know specifically how Dr. Goodman 
testified.  Brister stated he had reviewed Dr. Goodman’s report, but he did 
not rely on it or include it in his own report because Dr. Goodman’s report 
did not contain an opinion regarding whether Jack could return to work.  
Furthermore, Brister testified Dr. Kerr’s indication that Jack may need 
another surgery in the future was also not included in his report.  He stated 
he was not sure if he had that information at the time of rendering his report, 
but if he did, it should have been included and its absence was an oversight.  
He testified his findings were also based on Dr. Allison’s FCE and agreed 
that based on his findings, Jack had not been released to safely perform 
unrestricted sedentary work, which is the lowest physically demanding type 
of work.  
He confirmed he had noted in his report that Jack had explained to 
him that even with self-accommodations at Velocity Care, her pain level was 
such that she could not perform her job.  Brister testified his opinion was 
Jack had not suffered a loss of earning capacity.  However, he further 
testified his opinion would likely change if both Jack’s treating physician 
and the independent medical examiner indicated she could not return to 
work, in which case, she would have a loss of earning capacity.  He also 
testified that if Jack could not get her degree because of this accident, she 
would have a loss of future earning capacity.  
 
Tim Shaughnessy was accepted as an expert economist and testified 
that he was hired by Eldorado to evaluate Jack’s claim for damages.  He 
explained his method for determining Jack’s future lost wages required 
taking the difference between Jack’s anticipated earning during her work life 

 
expectancy in the earning path she was in prior to her injury and the earning 
path that she was in after her injury.  He then translated that difference into a 
present value that if put into a bank account where it would earn interest, 
would equal that difference over the span of Jack’s work life.  He testified 
that based on Brister’s report and testimony, Jack has no loss of earning 
capacity; therefore, it was his opinion that she, accordingly, had no loss of 
future earnings.   
Analysis 
 
A review of the record in its entirety shows the jury’s award for future 
lost wages was not manifestly erroneous or clearly wrong.  Eldorado asserts 
the jury’s award was in error due to the “overwhelming evidence” that Jack 
could return to work.  The jury was in fact presented with an overwhelming 
amount of evidence at this trial from very educated, qualified, and 
experienced experts on both sides.  While only that testimony relevant to the 
assignments of error has been summarized herein, we have reviewed the 
record in its entirety.  The record clearly shows that Jack is still in treatment 
and striving to resolve her pain.  There is simply no way for anyone to know 
what type of work she will be able to perform in the future.  However, there 
is clearly a reasonable factual basis in the record to support the jury’s award 
of future lost wages.  
First, we note there was uncontroverted testimony that Jack is still 
experiencing pain, making it difficult, or impossible, for her to resume her 
former employment duties.  There was no testimony showing Jack could 
return to unrestricted, full-time work without the necessity of 
accommodations in the form of self-accommodating activities, 
accommodations made by her employer, or assistance from coworkers. 

 
Instead, there was testimony from both sides that Jack can neither safely 
perform all her previous duties as office manager at Velocity Care, nor can 
she safely perform even the least physically demanding type of work—
sedentary work—without restrictions and accommodations.  Likewise, 
testimony from both sides showed that more likely than not, Jack’s injury is 
permanent.  
After hearing the ample expert testimony and relying on their 
testimony, the jury had a choice between two permissible views of the 
evidence: (1) Jack can go on to earn the same income she would have earned 
had she not been injured at the Eldorado Casino; or (2) she cannot.  The jury 
was permitted to credit the testimony of Jack’s experts over those of 
Eldorado and was absolutely reasonable in determining Jack will suffer lost 
wages in the future due to the effect her injuries sustained at the Eldorado 
Casino will, more likely than not, continue to have on her ability to work.  
We further note that the jury’s award was less than half of the amount of Dr. 
Stokes’ highest estimation of Jack’s future lost earnings.  Loss of earning 
capacity/future lost wages is an inherently speculative determination, thus 
the jury is given particularly great discretion in assessing those damages.  In 
light of the record reviewed in its entirety, the jury’s award of future lost 
wages to Jack was not manifestly erroneous or clearly wrong.  This 
assignment of error is without merit.  
Application of Collateral Source Rule to  
Insurer-Negotiated Write-Offs 
 
In its third assignment of error, Eldorado asserts the trial court erred in 
its application of the collateral source rule as to the written-off portion of 
Jack’s past medical expenses.  When a trial court rules against the 

 
admissibility of any evidence, it shall either permit the party offering such 
evidence to make a complete record thereof, or permit the party to make a 
statement setting forth the nature of the evidence.  La. C.C.P. art. 1636(A).  
It is incumbent upon the party who contends its evidence was improperly 
excluded to make a proffer, and if it fails to do so, it waives the right to 
complain of the exclusion on appeal.  Murphy v. Savannah, 51,906 (La. 
App. 2 Cir. 4/11/18), 246 So. 3d 785. 
Following the trial court’s denial of its motion in limine, Eldorado 
made no proffer of Jack’s unredacted medical bills or any other evidence of 
the amounts of the write-offs.  Therefore, Eldorado waived its right to 
complain of this exclusion on appeal, and the issue of the trial court’s 
application of the collateral source rule to the insurer-negotiated write-offs is 
not properly before this court.  This assignment of error is without merit.  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the judgment of the trial court in 
favor of the plaintiff, Yasheka Jack.  All costs of appeal are assessed to the 
defendants, Eldorado Casino Shreveport Joint Venture, L.L.C., Eldorado 
Shreveport #1, L.L.C., and Eldorado Shreveport #2, L.L.C. 
 
AFFIRMED. 
