 
 
 
 
 
2023 IL 128770 
 
IN THE 
SUPREME COURT 
OF 
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS 
 
 
 
(Docket No. 128770) 
PML DEVELOPMENT LLC, Appellant, v. THE VILLAGE OF HAWTHORN WOODS, 
Appellee. 
 
 
Opinion filed June 15, 2023. 
 
 
JUSTICE O’BRIEN delivered the judgment of the court, with opinion. 
 
Chief Justice Theis and Justices Neville, Overstreet, Holder White, and 
Cunningham concurred in the judgment and opinion. 
 
Justice Rochford specially concurred, with opinion. 
 
OPINION 
 
¶ 1 
 
Plaintiff, PML Development LLC (PML), brought an action against the Village 
of Hawthorn Woods (Village). PML alleged the Village breached a development 
agreement (Agreement) between the parties. The complaint sought damages 
resulting from the Village’s breach, as well as an order compelling the Village to 

 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
comply with the Agreement. The Village denied breaching the Agreement and filed 
counterclaims alleging that PML breached the Agreement. Following a bench trial, 
the circuit court of Lake County found that both parties materially breached the 
Agreement. However, the circuit court concluded the Village’s first material breach 
excused PML from performing its obligations under the Agreement. Therefore, the 
circuit court entered judgment in favor of PML on both its breach of contract claim 
and the Village’s counterclaim. 
¶ 2 
 
The Village appealed, and PML cross-appealed. The appellate court reversed, 
finding that neither party could recover damages because each party materially 
breached the Agreement. The court reasoned that, because PML continued to 
perform under the contract despite the Village’s breach, PML remained bound by 
the terms of the Agreement. When PML subsequently materially breached those 
terms, it could not recover damages. 2022 IL App (2d) 200779. This court granted 
PML’s petition for leave to appeal. Ill. S. Ct. R. 315 (eff. Oct. 1, 2021). For the 
following reasons, we reverse the appellate court’s judgment. We affirm the circuit 
court’s judgment in favor of PML on its breach of contract claims. We reverse the 
circuit court’s judgment in favor of PML on the Village’s breach of contract 
counterclaims. We remand the matter to the circuit court for further proceedings. 
 
¶ 3 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
¶ 4 
 
In June and July 2012, PML prepared a set of grading plans for a 62-acre 
property within the Village and submitted those plans to the Village for preapproval 
before it purchased the property. The Village’s chief administration officer and 
Village clerk informed PML that they had no objection to the plans, and on 
September 7, 2012, PML purchased the property. 
¶ 5 
 
On October 11, 2012, PML and the Village entered into the Agreement 
regarding the use of the property. The Agreement included the following relevant 
terms. Recital B limited PML to adding 1.2 million cubic yards of fill. Recital F 
required a drawdown deposit to be executed before commencing work. 
¶ 6 
 
The parties agreed that, upon completion of the grading project but no later than 
December 31, 2015, PML would donate the entire parcel of land to the Village for 
a total sum of $1 by warranty deed free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, and 

 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
special service area (SSA) assessments as of the date of conveyance. PML would 
pay all taxes while the property was in its possession, and the Village would assume 
responsibility for the taxes once PML conveyed the property to the Village. 
¶ 7 
 
The Agreement also allowed the property to be accessed by Kruger1 Road. 
PML agreed to bring Kruger Road back up to current Village standards at the end 
of the project. PML would perform the reconstruction with an anticipated donation 
toward that reconstruction of $200,000. 
¶ 8 
 
The Agreement provided that, before work could commence, PML would 
present the Village engineer with all plans, studies, reports, surveys, and other 
materials that might be necessary under the applicable Village codes and ordinances 
or that might be reasonably be requested by the Village engineer. The Village 
engineer would then approve the final plans if those plans satisfied the applicable 
codes and ordinances. The parties also agreed that the grading permit would be 
valid for two years from the date of issuance and that, if work was not completed 
within two years, a permit extension would be granted for an additional two years. 
The Agreement required PML to establish a drawdown account, and the funds from 
that account would be used to pay for inspections related to the grading, filling, 
sedimentation and soil erosion control measures, stormwater management, 
perimeter landscaping, and seeding operations. 
¶ 9 
 
The Village originally approved the plans PML submitted, and PML began 
operations on the property in February 2013. However, the Village attempted to 
transform the Agreement by placing additional requirements on PML so that PML 
could fill and develop the land to conform with the Village’s concept plan for future 
development of a municipal campus on the property. From March 2013 through 
September 2014, the Village repeatedly required PML to revise its plans without 
citing any Village code or ordinance violations. Instead, the Village made its 
demands to accommodate the Village’s ever-changing concept plans. Despite this, 
PML sent revised plans to accommodate the Village’s demands. 
¶ 10 
 
On May 4, 2015, PML filed a three-count complaint against the Village alleging 
the Village interfered with PML’s work on the property. Count I of PML’s 
 
 
1PML’s complaint and the development agreement spell the road’s name as “Krueger”; PML’s 
site surveys and the Village’s filings reflect the spelling “Kruger.”  

 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - 
complaint sought declaratory relief so that PML could complete its work in 
substantial compliance with the Agreement. Count II sought mandamus relief 
directing the Village to comply with its obligations under the Agreement. Count III 
alleged a breach of contract claim and sought monetary damages for the Village’s 
breach along with a determination that PML should be excused from its obligation 
to convey the property to the Village. The complaint did not specifically allege that 
the Agreement should be terminated based on the Village’s alleged material 
breaches. 
¶ 11 
 
The Village filed an answer, affirmative defenses, and counterclaims. The 
Village denied breaching the Agreement. The counterclaims alleged PML 
materially breached the Agreement for several reasons. Relevant to this appeal are 
the Village’s claims that PML failed to (1) pay the property taxes on the property 
(count IV) and (2) fund the drawdown account, which had a $58,103.25 deficit 
(count V). 
¶ 12 
 
On November 17, 2015, PML filed a mandamus petition. PML alleged that its 
incentive to enter into the Agreement was the potential income to be derived from 
charging its customers by volume for accepting fill for deposit on the property and 
then using that fill to grade the property. PML asserted that the Village’s 
misconduct had impaired any potential profit PML may have derived from the 
project. Specifically, the Village refused to issue the grading permit allowed under 
the Agreement. Instead, the Village interfered with PML’s operations and 
attempted to force PML to comply with the Village’s demands to conform the 
property to the Village’s conceptual plan, which differed substantially from the 
approved grading plans. PML requested a mandamus order directing the Village to 
issue the permit as required by the Agreement. 
¶ 13 
 
In response, the Village argued that PML breached the Agreement and should 
not be granted mandamus relief. The Village alleged that PML failed to pay the 
taxes for the property in violation of the Agreement. Consequently, PML could no 
longer convey the property free and clear of liens and encumbrances due to the tax 
delinquencies. 
¶ 14 
 
On January 15, 2016, the circuit court granted PML’s mandamus petition and 
ordered the Village to issue a permit to PML with a December 31, 2016, expiration. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
¶ 15 
 
In October 2016, the Village filed a motion to enforce the circuit court’s prior 
mandamus order and compel PML to complete its work by December 31, 2016. 
The Village argued that the Agreement did not contemplate PML operating on the 
property beyond the four-year period (2012-16). PML also continued to be in 
breach of the Agreement by failing to pay taxes on the property. The Village 
claimed that PML should not be allowed to reap the benefits of the project while 
avoiding the court’s orders and PML’s obligations under the Agreement. 
¶ 16 
 
PML filed a response to the motion to enforce the court’s mandamus order and 
included a cross-motion for mandamus relief. PML noted that the Agreement 
included a provision that allowed an automatic two-year extension if it had not 
completed the project. PML asserted that it had a right under the Agreement to 
continue to perform its operations and asked the court to deny the Village’s request 
to compel PML to finish the project by December 2016. As to its cross-motion for 
mandamus relief, PML asked the court to compel the Village to issue a permit 
extending the expiration by two years as required by the Agreement. 
¶ 17 
 
The Village also filed a motion for summary judgment. In this motion, the 
Village argued that PML materially breached the Agreement by failing to pay the 
property taxes and, as a result, PML could no longer convey the property to the 
Village free and clear of all liens and encumbrances as provided by the Agreement. 
Therefore, the Village requested summary judgment in its favor as to count IV of 
its counterclaims. 
¶ 18 
 
In response to the motion for summary judgment, PML argued that the failure 
to pay taxes was not a breach because the project had not yet been completed and 
PML could still redeem the taxes. 
¶ 19 
 
The Village also filed a motion to appoint a receiver. The Village contended 
that PML failed to pay the property taxes and caused the taxes to be sold at a tax 
auction. Consequently, it would be impossible for PML to convey the property to 
the Village, unless PML redeemed the taxes. The Village asked the court to compel 
specific performance by ordering PML to redeem those taxes or appoint a receiver 
to redeem those taxes on PML’s behalf. 
¶ 20 
 
On December 9, 2016, the circuit court extended its mandamus order and gave 
PML until December 31, 2018, to complete its work on the property pursuant to the 

 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
Agreement. The court denied the Village’s motion to enforce the court’s prior 
mandamus order, motion for summary judgment, and motion to appoint a receiver. 
¶ 21 
 
On August 7, 2017, the Village filed a motion for partial summary judgment on 
count IV of its counterclaims. Like the Village’s previous motion for summary 
judgment, this motion was also based on PML’s continued failure to pay the 
property taxes. 
¶ 22 
 
At a hearing on the motion, the Village argued that the Agreement required 
PML to pay the property taxes while PML possessed the property. Due to PML’s 
failure to pay taxes, third-party tax buyers purchased the unpaid taxes and now had 
liens on the property. The Agreement required PML to convey the property to the 
Village free and clear of all liens and encumbrances. 
¶ 23 
 
At the hearing, the court asked the Village’s counsel what its damages were, 
since the tax deed had not yet been issued and PML could presumably cure the tax 
deficiency. The Village responded that specific performance was one remedy 
provided by the Agreement, so damages were not required. The Village did not 
believe it was premature to seek relief, as it was attempting to protect its future 
interest in obtaining the property under the Agreement. Once the redemption period 
expired, it would be too late for the Village to obtain the property. 
¶ 24 
 
The court pointed out that the Agreement required PML to transfer the property 
no later than December 31, 2015. It asked why the property had not been 
transferred. According to the Village’s counsel, PML had not tendered the property 
and could not tender the property free and clear of the tax liens as required by the 
Agreement. PML’s counsel argued that the permit had been extended by the court’s 
first mandamus order to December 2016. The court, however, noted that December 
2016 had come and gone as well. PML represented that it was ready and willing to 
convey the property to the Village at any time but that the Village refused to accept 
the conveyance. PML also claimed that its failure to pay the taxes was caused by 
the Village’s interference with its operations on the property. 
¶ 25 
 
During the argument the court commented that the parties were in a unique 
situation: 

 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - 
“[W]henever there’s a breach of a contract, people basically say, Okay, we’re 
done, I’m not going to do my portion; he’s not—the other side’s not going to 
do—you guys are still operating under this contract, that it’s still valid and 
everybody owes everybody all the obligations and responsibilities under the 
agreement. I mean, it’s not like you said, Oh, you know, you breached, we’re 
stopping, we’re going to sue you, we would have made X dollars if we would 
have continued to the end of the term. You’re still operating. They’re still going 
there and checking to see if you’re in compliance with the ordinance and 
everybody’s operating as if this is still a valid un-breached contract ***.”  
PML’s counsel responded, “Well, isn’t that to our benefit?” The court believed this 
was a factual question and asked PML’s counsel why it should receive the benefits 
of the contract but not the Village, since both parties sought specific performance. 
The court asked PML’s counsel if PML was still operating under the contract, and 
counsel responded, “Right.” Counsel explained that PML continued its operations 
to mitigate damages and that the property could lose value if it stopped its 
operations. The court noted that PML could operate to mitigate its damages but that 
it could also terminate the Agreement and claim damages for the profits it expected 
to generate had it continued performing. 
¶ 26 
 
PML’s counsel explained that PML could convey the property within a day’s 
notice, but the Village would not accept the conveyance due to the outstanding 
property taxes. The Village’s counsel answered: 
“You know. This is a unique situation where we have a trial in less than two 
weeks on a contract that’s going to be continued to be performed until 2018, 
and you know, that’s I think unique as well, because we have now additional 
tax buyers *** out there who have the ability to perform as it relates to tax 
deeds. 
 
So are we going to have a trial and then, you know, they’re going to continue 
to perform until 2018 and then lose the property, you know, in that interim 
period?” 
The court raised concern about the damages being potentially speculative: 

 
 
 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
“The other thing that it makes difficult I think at some point, I mean, you’re 
going to tell me what your damages are potentially as of October 23 or 
whenever we finish the trial this year, but you’re right, you’re going to still be 
operating and you could all of the sudden become the most popular fill dump 
place in the county and get more business than you ever thought you would get 
and make more money than you thought you would ever make ***.” 
¶ 27 
 
Ultimately, the circuit court granted the Village’s motion for partial summary 
judgment in part. The court explained: 
 
“The motion for summary judgment as to Count 4 for failure to pay the 
taxes, I’m in a quandary on this one ***. 
 
I think that I can partially grant your motion because I think that there is no 
genuine issue of material fact that there has been a breach based on the failure 
to pay taxes given the fact that there was a turnover date of title prior to when 
this became an issue even though it’s been extended. I don’t think there’s a 
genuine—I don’t think that there’s no genuine issue of material fact whether, 
in fact, they can comply with that, whether they can do specific performance. I 
don’t know anything about their financial information, whether they, in fact, 
have the money to redeem the taxes or not. 
 
I think to order them to do that without having information whether that is 
valid or if your remedy is a breach of contract instead of specific performance, 
I think that’s an issue that has to be reserved for trial. 
 
So to the extent that we’ll take an issue out of the litigation here, I am going 
to find that there was a breach for failing to pay the taxes no later than what the 
turnover date was contemplated, whether it was December—the end of 
December 2015 or the extended date in 2016. At this point, that date has come 
and gone and that may eliminate some evidence that’s presented at trial ***. 
 
 
 
 
 
* * * 
 
*** As everybody has noted, there have been allegations of breaches back 
and forth and I’m going to have to make a determination probably who was the 
original at fault to see how the things are going to shake out at the end of the 
day. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
So, no, [PML is] not going to be precluded from saying, you know, here’s 
the reason why. I’m merely taking this issue out that, in fact, I think was a 
contested issue that you didn’t have to pay the taxes yet. And I think the 
deadline for payment of taxes based on what’s in the agreement has come and 
gone and [PML is] in breach of that. Whether there’s an excuse for it or not, I 
have not made a determination of that.” 
¶ 28 
 
Prior to trial, both parties submitted pretrial memorandums to the court. Both 
parties agreed that the Agreement was binding and enforceable. Each party asserted 
that it performed its obligations under the Agreement but claimed the other party 
should be liable for its alleged breach. The Village’s memorandum added the 
allegation that PML breached the Agreement by failing to reconstruct Kruger Road 
as required by the Agreement. 
¶ 29 
 
The cause went to trial on November 20, 2020. 
¶ 30 
 
After trial, the parties submitted posttrial memorandums. In PML’s posttrial 
memorandum, PML maintained that the Agreement was valid and enforceable and 
that it performed its obligations under the Agreement. PML alleged that the 
evidence showed that the Village materially breached the Agreement by (1) failing 
to issue the proper grading permit, (2) imposing obligations on PML that were not 
part of the Agreement, and (3) interfering with PML’s means and methods of 
developing the property. PML also asserted that any claimed breach as to the 
drawdown account and Kruger Road reconstruction occurred after the Village 
materially breached. Thus, the Village could not recover. In addition, the Village 
hindered PML’s performance and caused PML’s inability to pay the taxes on the 
property. Further, the Village failed to mitigate its damages by rejecting PML’s 
offers to convey the property to the Village. 
¶ 31 
 
In the Village’s memorandum, it claimed that it performed its obligations and 
alleged that PML breached the Agreement by failing to (1) convey the property to 
the Village, (2) fund the drawdown account, and (3) reconstruct Kruger Road. As 
to damages, the Village argued that PML’s inability to convey the property 
frustrated the main purpose of the Agreement, the Village suffered damages based 
on PML’s failure to fund the drawdown account, and the Village suffered damages 
in excess of $200,000 caused by PML’s failure to restore Kruger Road. The Village 
asked the court to order PML to convey the property to the Village by warranty 

 
 
 
 
 
- 10 - 
deed free and clear of all liens and encumbrances “in full compliance with the terms 
of the Development Agreement,” reconstruct Kruger Road, pay the amounts owed 
under the drawdown account, and pay the Village’s attorney fees. The Village did 
not request monetary damages caused by PML’s failure to convey the property. 
¶ 32 
 
Prior to judgment, the Village filed a motion to reopen proofs. The motion asked 
the court to take judicial notice of the tax deed, quitclaim deed, and Lake County 
property tax records, which showed that one of the parcels comprising the property 
had been conveyed to a third party by quitclaim deed. The Village did not ask the 
court for a hearing on damages caused by PML’s failure to convey the property. 
However, the Village asked the court to take judicial notice of these records to the 
extent the new evidence would impact the court’s upcoming judgment and the relief 
it awarded. Subsequently, the parties entered an agreed stipulation of these facts, 
and the Village withdrew the motion as moot. 
¶ 33 
 
The circuit court entered a written judgment, which included detailed factual 
findings and legal conclusions. The court found “[e]ach party accused the other 
party of materially breaching the Development Agreement, but neither party 
stopped the development of the Property from proceeding even after PML filed its 
lawsuit against the Village in 2015.” 
¶ 34 
 
As to the Village, the circuit court found the Village materially breached the 
Agreement in three ways. First, the circuit court found that the Village materially 
breached the Agreement by refusing to approve PML’s grading plans and issue the 
appropriate grading permit. The Agreement required the Village to approve PML’s 
final grading plans and issue the grading permit once PML submitted all plan 
studies, reports, surveys, and other materials that might be necessary under the 
applicable Village codes and ordinances or that might be reasonably requested by 
the Village engineers. However, neither the Village nor the Village engineers told 
PML that the grading plans violated any specific code or other regulatory provision. 
Therefore, the circuit court determined that the plans were code compliant. Pursuant 
to the Agreement, the Village should have issued the initial grading permit in 
February 2013, but the Village did not issue the grading permit until December 15, 
2014. Additionally, the permit issued by the Village violated the Agreement and 
required the court’s intervention. The grading permit should have been for a two-

 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
year period as required by the Agreement, but the Village only issued a nine-month 
permit. 
¶ 35 
 
Second, the court found the Village materially breached the Agreement by 
imposing obligations on PML that were not bargained for and not part of the 
Agreement to obtain concessions from PML. The court based this finding on the 
Village’s continued refusal to issue the required permits to PML. The Village also 
issued at least six improper stop work orders. 
¶ 36 
 
Third, the court found the Village materially breached the Agreement by failing 
to allow PML to dictate the means and methods of developing the property through 
the Village’s use of earth change approvals. Because the Village did not have its 
municipal concept plan finalized, it only issued earth change approvals to force 
PML to work in areas that the Village believed would not have any buildings, roads, 
parking areas, or bike paths. 
¶ 37 
 
The court found the Village’s earth change approvals illogical because it 
required PML to deposit fill in front of the Kruger Road entrance. The work 
sequencing forced onto PML by the Village contributed to poor site conditions and 
sediment being tracked onto Kruger Road and long lines of trucks waiting on 
Kruger Road to deposit fill. This caused PML to perform unnecessary work to move 
the mountain of fill that accumulated at the entrance. 
¶ 38 
 
As to PML, the circuit court found that PML materially breached the Agreement 
in three ways. First, the Agreement required PML to fund a drawdown deposit 
account. The drawdown account had a deficit of $53,103.25 as of June 2015. The 
court found that the charges debited against the account were authorized charges 
under the terms of the Agreement. PML’s failure to fund the account constituted a 
material breach of the Agreement. 
¶ 39 
 
Second, the Agreement also required PML to reconstruct Kruger Road upon 
completion of the project. PML’s total financial donation toward the reconstruction 
of Kruger Road was to be $200,000. PML did not reconstruct the road, which the 
court found to be a material breach of the Agreement. 
¶ 40 
 
Third, the Agreement required PML to donate the property to the Village for 
the sum of one dollar at the completion of the grading project, but no later than 

 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - 
December 31, 2015. PML never conveyed the property to the Village. The donation 
of the property was to be by warranty deed free and clear of all liens and 
encumbrances. The court found that the payment of taxes was part of the 
requirement that PML convey the property to the Village by warranty deed free and 
clear of all liens, encumbrances, and SSA assessments as of the date of conveyance. 
However, it concluded that the failure to pay the real estate taxes when due was not 
a material violation of the Agreement because the Agreement required that all taxes 
be fully paid by the time of the conveyance, which provided PML with time to pay 
any delinquent taxes. Nevertheless, PML never redeemed the taxes and failed to 
convey the property to the Village by warranty deed by December 2015, which the 
court found to be a material breach of the Agreement. 
¶ 41 
 
Despite finding breaches by both parties, the court entered judgments in favor 
of PML on its breach of contract claims and the Village’s breach of contract 
counterclaim because the Village materially breached the Agreement first. The 
court reasoned the Village could not seek to enforce the terms beneficial to the 
Village against PML given that the Village materially breached the Agreement first. 
Therefore, it held that PML’s performance of its obligations under the Agreement 
was excused. The court awarded PML damages for lost revenue in the amount of 
$268,223.70 (based on the difference in target fill rate and the actual fill rate); 
additional costs relating to site preparation, topsoil, and clay work through the 
expiration of the grading permit in the amount of $4,898,161; and additional costs 
attributable to multiple revisions to PML’s plans to comply with the Village’s 
demands in the amount of $183,292. The court also awarded PML $1,571,795.60 
in attorney fees and $2654.74 in costs. 
¶ 42 
 
The Village appealed, and PML cross-appealed. The Village raised four 
arguments. First, it argued that, because the circuit court found that PML had 
materially breached the parties’ agreement, the circuit court should have awarded 
the Village judgment on its counterclaims. 2022 IL App (2d) 200779, ¶ 40. 
Specifically, the Village argued that the circuit court wrongly found that it had 
materially breached the Agreement and then compounded its error by finding that 
the Village’s breach excused PML’s obligations under the agreement. Id. Second, 
the Village argued that, because the court had found that PML materially breached 
the agreement, it erred in allowing PML to recover damages under the agreement. 
Id. Third, the Village argued that PML failed to satisfy its burden in proving 

 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
damages under the new-business rule. Id. Fourth, the Village argued that the circuit 
court erred in awarding attorney fees to PML. Id. In its cross-appeal, PML 
contended that its damages award should be increased. Id. ¶ 38. 
¶ 43 
 
As to the first issue, the appellate court found that the circuit court properly 
found “the Village materially breached the Agreement when it hindered PML’s 
ability to use the property via customary means and methods.” Id. ¶ 48. As one 
material breach is sufficient to prevent the Village from recovering under the 
Agreement, the court did not address the other ways the circuit court found that the 
Village had materially breached the Agreement. Id. 
¶ 44 
 
As to the second issue, the appellate court agreed with the Village that its breach 
of the agreement did not automatically alleviate PML of its contractual obligations. 
Id. ¶ 50. The court noted that PML chose to file a complaint and received a writ of 
mandamus to compel the Village to adhere to the terms of the Agreement. Id. ¶ 51. 
PML was able to complete its work on the property by December 2018. Id. Since 
PML elected to proceed with the Agreement after the Village’s alleged breach of 
that Agreement, PML remained bound by the obligations imposed under the 
Agreement. Id. The appellate court found that the circuit court erred in finding that 
the Village’s first breach excused PML from its obligations under the contract. 
Relying on Chicago Washed Coal Co. v. Whitsett, 278 Ill. 623 (1917), the appellate 
court concluded that neither party could recover damages since both parties 
materially breached the Agreement, and the court vacated the damages award in 
favor of PML. 2022 IL App (2d) 200779, ¶¶ 60-61. Given this finding, the appellate 
court did not address each party’s challenges to the circuit court’s damages 
calculation. Id. ¶ 62. 
 
¶ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS 
¶ 46 
 
In this court, neither party challenges the circuit court’s and appellate court’s 
findings that each party materially breached the Agreement. Nor do the parties 
dispute the fact that the Village materially breached first. Instead, the arguments in 
this court are focused on the unique scenario presented in this case, where both 
parties materially breach a contract but there is a question as to whether each party 
elected to continue performing despite the breach. We are asked to determine each 
party’s respective rights to pursue its breach of contract claims. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 14 - 
¶ 47 
 
The appellate court found the Village could not recover since it breached the 
Agreement first. It also found that PML could not recover because it “elected” to 
continue the Agreement despite the Village’s material breach. Given this 
“election,” the appellate court found that PML remained bound to the terms of the 
Agreement. Since PML subsequently materially breached the Agreement, the 
appellate court found that it too could not recover damages. Upon review, we find 
that both parties elected to continue performing the Agreement. Therefore, we hold 
that both the Village and PML retained a viable claim for breach of contract. 
¶ 48 
 
Initially, PML contends that the appellate court erred in applying the election 
of remedies doctrine. Despite using the term “elected,” what the appellate court 
applied is the partial breach doctrine. Although the partial breach doctrine has been 
referred to as an “aspect of [the] election of remedies,” each doctrine has its own 
separate rules and distinct application. Emerald Investments Ltd. Partnership v. 
Allmerica Financial Life Insurance & Annuity Co., 516 F.3d 612, 618 (7th Cir. 
2008). The partial breach doctrine, which is at issue here, is an exception to the 
first-to-breach rule.2 Both parties ask this court to adopt and apply the partial 
breach doctrine to this case, though they disagree on the result of the doctrine’s 
application. We, therefore, focus our analysis on the application of the first-to-
breach rule and the partial breach doctrine. 
 
¶ 49 
 
 
 
 
 
A. The First-to-Breach Rule and Its Exception 
¶ 50 
 
Generally, to recover on a breach of contract claim, the party must have 
performed its part of the contract. See Dubey v. Public Storage, Inc., 395 Ill. App. 
3d 342, 361-62 (2009). This is true because substantial performance is a necessary 
element of a breach of contract claim. Talbert v. Home Savings of America, F.A., 
265 Ill. App. 3d 376, 379-80 (1994). The first-to-breach rule excuses a party’s duty 
to perform under the contract if the other party materially breaches the agreement 
first. See Mohanty v. St. John Heart Clinic, S.C., 225 Ill. 2d 52, 70 (2006); Eager 
 
 
2PML contends that the appellate court should have deemed the Village’s arguments on the 
partial breach doctrine “waived” because the Village failed to raise the issue in the trial court. 
However, PML failed to make this forfeiture argument in the appellate court. Therefore, PML has 
forfeited this argument. See Illinois Supreme Court Rule 341(h)(7) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020) (“Points not 
argued are forfeited ***.”). 

 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
v. Berke, 11 Ill. 2d 50, 54 (1957); Finch v. Illinois Community College Board, 315 
Ill. App. 3d 831, 836 (2000). In other words, the first-to-breach rule excuses the 
injured party from future performance and allows the injured party to pursue its 
breach of contract claims. Conversely, the first breaching party cannot seek to 
enforce the contract against the injured party. 
¶ 51 
 
The circuit court in this case ended its analysis here. It found the Village 
breached first. This breach excused PML from performing, and only PML could 
recover. The circuit court’s analysis was flawed. As the appellate court recognized, 
there is an exception to this rule where the nonbreaching party may lose its right to 
assert the first-to-breach rule if it accepts the benefits of the contract despite the 
other party’s material breach. This is often referred to as the “partial” breach 
doctrine. See Emerald Investments, 516 F.3d at 618; Dustman v. Advocate Aurora 
Health, Inc., 2021 IL App (4th) 210157, ¶ 38 (citing 2 E. Allan Farnsworth, 
Farnsworth on Contracts § 8.15, at 437-38 (2d ed. 1998)). It applies where an 
injured party elects to continue performing under the contract despite the other 
party’s material breach. By continuing the contract, the injured party remains bound 
by its obligation to perform. Dustman, 2021 IL App (4th) 210157, ¶ 38. This does 
not amount to a waiver of the right to damages for the first material breach, but the 
injured party may too be liable if it breaches the contract. See Restatement (Second) 
of Contracts § 237, cmt. e (1981). 
¶ 52 
 
All of this is to say that, following a material breach, the injured party reaches 
a fork in the road: it may either continue the contract (retain its benefits of the 
bargain and sue for damages) or repudiate the agreement (cease performing and sue 
for damages). See id. § 246, cmts. a-c, illus. 1-3; Emerald Investments, 516 F.3d at 
618. If the party elects to continue with the contract, it cannot suspend performance 
later and then claim it had no duty to perform based on the first material breach. 
This election converts the material breach to a “partial” breach. “[T]he injured party 
may sue for any damages caused by the partial breach, but having elected to keep 
the contract in force, the injured party must continue to perform the contract on pain 
of likewise incurring liability for a breach.” Dustman, 2021 IL App (4th) 210157, 
¶ 38. Although this court has yet to explicitly adopt the partial breach doctrine, the 
general principle underlying the doctrine is well rooted in Illinois law. See Chicago 
Washed Coal Co., 278 Ill. at 627-28; Wollenberger v. Hoover, 346 Ill. 511, 544-45 
(1931) (discussing the concept in terms of inconsistent remedies); Emerald 

 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - 
Investments, 516 F.3d at 618 (applying Illinois law); South Beloit Electric Co. v. 
Lar Gar Enterprises, Inc., 80 Ill. App. 2d 367, 374-75 (1967) (citing Lichter v. 
Goss, 232 F.2d 715 (7th Cir. 1956) (applying Illinois law)); Dustman, 2021 IL App 
(4th) 210157, ¶ 38. To the extent this court has not yet explicitly adopted the partial 
breach doctrine, we do so now. 
¶ 53 
 
The application of the partial breach doctrine is illustrated in Dustman, 2021 IL 
App (4th) 210157. In Dustman, a dispute arose between the plaintiff shareholders 
and two former shareholders, as well as the individuals that had purchased their 
shares. Id. ¶ 1. Initially, the plaintiffs alleged that it made several demands for the 
defendants to engage in arbitration or mediation as provided by the parties’ 
operating agreement. Id. ¶ 36. The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants ignored or 
rejected those demands. Id. The plaintiffs brought an action against defendants 
raising several claims. Id. ¶ 16. The proceedings were initially stayed after the 
parties agreed to participate in nonbinding mediation. Id. ¶ 19. When mediation 
failed, the defendants filed a motion to stay the litigation and compel binding 
arbitration pursuant to the agreement. Id. ¶¶ 20-21. The plaintiffs, having changed 
their minds, argued that the defendants’ initial refusal to mediate or arbitrate the 
dispute constituted a material breach. Id. ¶ 36. Thus, according to the plaintiffs, the 
plaintiffs were relieved of their contractual obligation to arbitrate the dispute 
expressed in their complaint. Id. ¶ 37. 
¶ 54 
 
The appellate court rejected the plaintiffs’ argument. The court assumed that 
the defendants refused the demands for mediation or arbitration and that such 
refusal constituted a material breach of the operating agreement. Id. It noted, where 
there is a material, uncured breach of contract, the injured party must decide either 
to terminate the contract or continue the contract. Id. The court explained, 
 
“ ‘If the injured party chooses to terminate the contract, it is said to treat the 
breach as total. The injured party’s claim for damages for total breach takes the 
place of its remaining substantive rights under the contract. Damages are 
calculated on the assumption that neither party will render any further 
performance. They therefore compensate the injured party for the loss that it 
will suffer as a result of being deprived of the balance of the other party’s 
performance, minus the amount of any saving that resulted from the injured 
party not having to render its own performance. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 17 - 
 
If the injured party does not terminate the contract, either because that party 
has no right to or does not choose to, the injured party is said to treat the breach 
as partial. The injured party has a claim for damages for partial breach, in 
addition to its remaining substantive rights under the contract. Damages are 
calculated on the assumption that both parties will continue to perform in spite 
of the breach. They therefore compensate the injured party only for the loss it 
suffered as the result of the delay or other defect in performance that constituted 
the breach, not for the loss of the balance of the return performance. Since the 
injured party is not relieved from performing, there is no saving to it to be 
subtracted.’ ” (Emphases omitted.) Id. ¶ 38 (quoting 2 E. Allan Farnsworth, 
Farnsworth on Contracts § 8.15, at 437-38 (2d ed. 1998)). 
¶ 55 
 
The court continued by noting that, if the injured party elects to continue 
performing the contract by treating the breach as “partial,” the injured party is 
bound by this decision and has lost the right to stop performance. Id. The court 
explained the effect of an election to proceed in these circumstances: 
 
“ ‘Where there has been a material failure of performance by one party to a 
contract, so that a condition precedent to the duty of the other party’s 
performance has not occurred, the latter party has the choice to continue to 
perform under the contract or to cease to perform, and conduct indicating an 
intention to continue the contract in effect will constitute a conclusive election, 
in effect waiving the right to assert that the breach discharged any obligation to 
perform. In other words, the general rule that one party’s uncured, material 
failure of performance will suspend or discharge the other party’s duty to 
perform does not apply where the latter party, with knowledge of the facts, 
either performs or indicates a willingness to do so, despite the breach, or insists 
that the defaulting party continue to render future performance.’ ” Id. ¶ 39 
(quoting 14 Samuel Williston, Richard A. Lord, A Treatise on the Law of 
Contracts § 43:15, at 626 (4th ed. 2000)). 
¶ 56 
 
Applying the “partial” breach doctrine, the Dustman court found that, despite 
the defendants’ previous refusals to submit to mediation or arbitration, the plaintiffs 
continued to insist that the defendants submit to mediation or arbitration under the 
operating agreement. Id. ¶ 40. The plaintiffs therefore insisted that the defaulting 
party continue to render future performance. Id. This constituted a conclusive 

 
 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
election to continue the contract. Id. Further, the parties underwent mediation of 
their present claims. Id. By participating in nonbinding arbitration, the plaintiffs 
performed their contractual obligations. Id. Therefore, the plaintiffs elected to 
continue the contract. Id. Because of this election, the appellate court concluded 
that the plaintiffs remained bound by the contractual duty to submit their dispute to 
arbitration. Id.  
¶ 57 
 
Dustman is helpful in establishing the general principle of the “partial” breach 
doctrine. That is, when a party to a contract elects to continue performing despite 
the other party’s material breach, the nonbreaching party remains bound to its 
obligation to perform. It does not, however, answer the specific question presented 
in this appeal, that is: if an injured party elects to continue performing a contract—
despite the other party’s material breach—what is the consequence of the injured 
party’s subsequent material breach? Or, in this case, what impact does PML’s 
subsequent breach have on its ability to pursue its breach of contract claims against 
the Village? Similarly, what effect does PML’s election to continue performing 
have on the Village’s ability to pursue its breach of contract claim? Before 
answering those questions, we must first address each party’s argument that it did 
not “elect” to continue performing the Agreement after the other party’s material 
breach. 
¶ 58 
 
Neither party has provided a case establishing the standard of review for this 
specific question. Given that it is a disputed question of fact, we believe the decision 
to continue performing is a factual question to be reviewed under the manifest 
weight of the evidence standard. See generally Galesburg Clinic Ass’n v. West, 302 
Ill. App. 3d 1016, 1019-20 (1999) (applying manifest weight of the evidence 
standard to similar issue of whether a party waived its right to assert a breach of 
contract claim); Eychaner v. Gross, 202 Ill. 2d 228, 251 (2002) (generally, the 
standard of review in a bench trial is whether the order or judgment is against the 
manifest weight of the evidence); cf. Dustman, 2021 IL App (4th) 210157, ¶¶ 28-
29 (applying de novo review to the same question presented here but where facts 
were not in dispute). We review the legal effect of that factual determination 
de novo. Eychaner, 202 Ill. 2d at 252 (applying de novo review to the circuit court’s 
ruling on the legal effect of factual determinations). 

 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
¶ 59 
 
Here, the circuit court found that “[e]ach party accused the other party of 
materially breaching the Development Agreement, but neither party stopped the 
development of the Property from proceeding even after PML filed its lawsuit 
against the Village in 2015.” In other words, the circuit court found that PML and 
the Village elected to continue performing despite the other party’s material breach. 
The record supports a finding that PML elected to continue performing. PML never 
sought to terminate the Agreement. It only asked to be relieved of its obligation to 
convey the property to the Village. When the Village refused to approve PML’s 
grading permit, it could have terminated the contract. It did not. Instead, it insisted 
that the Village issue the proper grading permit. So too, when the Village interfered 
with PML’s means and methods by dictating where and how to work on the 
property, PML could have terminated the Agreement. And, when the Village 
imposed terms not bargained for, PML could have terminated the agreement. Yet 
it continued to operate on the property, reaping significant economic benefits. We 
also do not view PML’s actions as mere attempts to mitigate damages. PML sought 
and obtained mandamus orders extending its operations under the Agreement for 
several years in the future. 
¶ 60 
 
The Village asserts that it did not elect to continue the contract after PML’s 
material breach. Therefore, it contends that the appellate court erred when it 
determined that it too could not recover under its breach of contract counterclaim. 
In the Village’s view, its breach was converted to a partial breach, and it can show 
substantial performance to pursue its breach of contract claim. PML’s material 
breach, on the other hand, never converted to a partial breach because the Village 
did not elect to continue performing. Since PML’s breach remained material, it 
cannot show substantial performance. Therefore, the Village claims that it is 
entitled to judgment in its favor and PML is barred from recovering. 
¶ 61 
 
In holding that neither party could recover damages since both parties 
materially breached the Agreement, the appellate court relied on Chicago Washed 
Coal, 278 Ill. 623. However, the appellate court mischaracterized the holding of 
Chicago Washed Coal, as we will explain below. Additionally, the appellate court 
failed to consider the crucial factual distinctions between Chicago Washed Coal 
and this case. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
¶ 62 
 
In Chicago Washed Coal, the parties agreed to the sale and delivery of 1500 
tons of certain types of coal to be delivered in daily installments from December 
28, 1909, to March 30, 1910, with payment to be made on or before the tenth day 
of the month following shipment. Id. at 624. The seller could not supply the agreed-
upon type of coal, or the entire amount agreed upon, but did deliver coal to the 
buyer. Id. at 624-25. The buyer refused to pay for any of the coal delivered in the 
month of March until the seller delivered more coal. Id. at 625. The seller gave 
notice to the buyer that it had rescinded the contract and would no longer deliver 
coal to the buyer based on the buyer’s refusal to make payment. Id. The circuit court 
entered judgment in favor of the seller for the coal delivered that the buyer refused 
to pay for. Id. at 626. It denied judgment in favor of the buyer because it breached 
the agreement by refusing to make payments. Id. at 624. On appeal, this court held 
that the buyer’s election to continue the contract meant that the buyer remained 
obligated to make payments. Id. at 627. The buyer’s failure to make payments 
barred it from recovering damages caused by the sellers’ breach of contract. Id. 
¶ 63 
 
In holding that neither party could recover in this case, the appellate court took 
the following statement from Chicago Washed Coal out of context: “Therefore the 
most that can be said for [the buyer’s] case is that its proofs show that both parties 
were in default. In this condition of the record there could be no recovery by either 
against the other on the contract.” Id. However, this court held that the seller 
properly recovered damages from the buyer’s refusal to make payment for the coal 
delivered by the seller. Id. at 626. Chicago Washed Coal is consistent with the 
partial breach doctrine: the seller could recover despite its material breach because 
the buyer elected to continue the contract. 
¶ 64 
 
At this point, the facts of Chicago Washed Coal also diverge from the facts in 
the present case in a critical way. Chicago Washed Coal did not involve the 
question of whether both parties elected to continue performing despite the other 
party’s material breach. Rather, the seller in that case affirmatively terminated the 
agreement. Consequently, we find the appellate court’s analysis in our case flawed 
because it failed to consider whether the Village elected to continue performing 
despite PML’s breach. If the answer to that question is “yes,” then PML’s material 
breach also converted to a partial breach. 

 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
¶ 65 
 
Contrary to the Village’s argument, the record supports the circuit court’s 
finding that the Village also operated as if the Agreement remained in force despite 
allegations of breaches by PML. The Village acknowledges that its brief in the 
appellate court admitted “both parties elected to proceed,” but it contends that this 
was merely a mistake. However, the Village’s pleadings and arguments in the 
circuit court are consistent with the statement that the Village elected to continue 
performing. Throughout the proceedings, the Village claimed it performed its part 
of the Agreement and repeatedly sought specific performance. At the hearing on 
the Village’s motion for partial summary judgment, the Village admitted that the 
parties would continue performing under the Agreement until at least 2018. At the 
time of that hearing, the Village already claimed that PML materially breached the 
Agreement. The Village could have made a claim to terminate the Agreement. It 
did not. In fact, the Village continued to demand specific performance of the 
conveyance of the property at trial. Even after trial, the Village maintained that it 
“demonstrated that it ha[d] allowed this project to go forward despite those 
numerous breaches.” By presenting its claims as if the Agreement were still in force 
despite alleged breaches by PML, we cannot say the circuit court erred when it 
found that the Village also elected to continue performing despite PML’s breach. 
¶ 66 
 
Having found both parties elected to continue the Agreement, we next 
determine whether either party may recover damages. As discussed above, by 
electing to continue performing the Agreement, both PML and the Village, in 
essence, treated each “material” breach as merely a “partial” one (or nonmaterial). 
See All EMS, Inc. v. 7-Eleven, Inc., 181 Fed. App’x 551, 557-58 (7th Cir. 2006) 
(applying Illinois law). Unlike a material breach, when the breach is partial, “ ‘both 
parties may be guilty of breaches, each having a right to damages.’ ” InsureOne 
Independent Insurance Agency, LLC v. Hallberg, 2012 IL App (1st) 092385, ¶ 33 
(quoting Israel v. National Canada Corp., 276 Ill. App. 3d 454, 460 (1995)); see 
also Devon Bank v. Schlinder, 72 Ill. App. 3d 147, 154 (1979); Dawdy v. Sample, 
178 Ill. App. 3d 118, 126 (1989) (holding that, where both parties mutually breach 
a contract, both parties are entitled to some, but not total, damages for breach). We 
hold that the Village materially breached first by failing to issue the proper grading 
permit, imposing obligations that were not part of the Agreement, and interfering 
with PML’s means and methods. PML’s election to continue the Agreement did 
not bar it from seeking damages, but it did convert the Village’s material breach to 
a partial breach. Converting the breach to a partial breach meant that the Village 

 
 
 
 
 
- 22 - 
could seek a breach of contract claim if PML subsequently breached. PML 
subsequently materially breached by failing to convey the property, failing to fund 
the drawdown account, and failing to reconstruct Kruger Road. The Village could 
pursue its breach of contract claim based on those breaches given that the Village’s 
breaches converted to partial breaches. The Village elected to continue the 
Agreement and converted PML’s material breach to a partial breach. Therefore, 
PML’s breaches did not bar it from pursuing a breach of contract claim against the 
Village for the Village’s prior breaches. Each party had a viable breach of contract 
claim. 
¶ 67 
 
In sum, we find the appellate court erred when it held that neither party could 
recover damages. We hold that the circuit court correctly entered judgment in favor 
of PML on its breach of contract claim. However, it erred when it entered a 
judgment in favor of PML on the Village’s breach of contract counterclaim. The 
circuit court should enter judgment in favor of the Village on its breach of contract 
counterclaim. The circuit court should calculate each party’s respective damages 
and offset the ultimate award given. 
 
¶ 68 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Unaddressed Issues in the Appellate Court 
¶ 69 
 
In the appellate court, both parties challenged the circuit court’s calculation of 
PML’s damages. PML argued that its damages should be increased, and the Village 
argued that PML failed to prove its damages. The appellate court did not reach these 
arguments, given that it held that neither party could recover. In addition, the 
Village challenged the circuit court’s award of attorney fees. It appears the appellate 
court did not reach this issue. The Village and PML both request a remand to the 
appellate court to address these issues. We believe the most efficient approach is to 
remand the matter to the trial court. The trial court entered its judgment under the 
incorrect belief that the Village could not recover, and the court did not make 
findings as to the Village’s damages. The trial court should enter a new judgment 
under the correct legal framework. It should also reconsider its award of attorney 
fees. Whether an additional evidentiary hearing on the Village’s damages is 
required is for the trial court to determine. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
¶ 70 
 
 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
¶ 71 
 
For the foregoing reasons, we reverse the appellate court’s judgment. We affirm 
circuit court’s judgment in favor of PML on its breach of contract claims. We 
reverse the circuit court’s judgment in favor of PML on the Village’s breach of 
contract counterclaims. We remand the matter to the circuit court for further 
proceedings consistent with this opinion. 
 
¶ 72 
 
Appellate court judgment reversed. 
¶ 73 
 
Circuit court judgment affirmed in part and reversed in part. 
¶ 74 
 
Cause remanded. 
 
¶ 75 
 
JUSTICE ROCHFORD, specially concurring: 
¶ 76 
 
The facts relevant to the parties’ remedies are straightforward: the Village and 
PML each materially breached the agreement, and each party, despite the mutual 
breaches, persisted in performing under the agreement. I agree with my colleagues 
that PML’s election to continue the contract obligated PML to fulfill its obligations, 
thereby preserving the Village’s claim for damages. Likewise, the Village’s 
election to continue the contract obligated the Village to fulfill its obligations, 
thereby preserving PML’s claim for damages. But on its journey to the correct 
result, the majority opinion veers off course, perpetuating the myth of the “partial 
breach.” I write separately to clarify that the so-called “partial-breach” doctrine is 
better understood as an election of remedies. 
¶ 77 
 
If a party fails to perform his duties under a contract, without a valid excuse, he 
is liable for a breach of contract, and the remedy depends on whether the breach 
was material or minor. Finch v. Illinois Community College Board, 315 Ill. App. 
3d 831, 836 (2000); Circle Security Agency, Inc. v. Ross, 107 Ill. App. 3d 195 
(1982). The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, recognizing the difference, 
accurately described the “partial-breach” doctrine this way: 
“Like many legal doctrines, it is badly named. There is no such thing as a partial 
breach. There is a breach of contract, and there are alterations and terminations 

 
 
 
 
 
- 24 - 
that are not breaches. The doctrine is really an aspect of election of remedies. If 
a party to a contract breaks it, the other party can abandon the contract (unless 
the breach is very minor [citations]) and sue for damages, or it can continue 
with the contract and sue for damages. [Citations.] But if it makes the latter 
election, it is bound to the obligations that the contract imposes on it. 
[Citations.] When [the defendant] *** broke its contract ***, [the plaintiff] 
could have terminated the contract. But it did not, and so [the defendant] was 
entitled to enforce the obligations that the contract put on [the plaintiff].” 
Emerald Investments v. Allmerica Financial Life Insurance & Annuity Co., 516 
F.3d 612, 618 (7th Cir. 2008). 
¶ 78 
 
Thus, a party injured by a minor breach is entitled to damages but may not 
abandon the contract. By contrast, a material breach allows the injured party to elect 
one of two remedies: (1) abandon the contract and sue for damages or (2) continue 
the contract and sue for damages but risk liability for failing to fulfill his own 
contractual obligations. 
¶ 79 
 
Contract breaches are described as material or minor, yet the majority 
repeatedly refers to “partial” breaches, which do not exist. The majority compounds 
the misnomer by holding that a material breach can “convert” to a “partial” breach. 
Supra ¶¶ 52, 60, 64, 66. A material breach remains material regardless of the chosen 
remedy—the breach is not diminished by the election to continue the contract. 
Rather, the material breach is treated like a minor breach. 
¶ 80 
 
A party who does not terminate the contract either because he has no right to 
(because the breach is minor) or elects not to (when the breach is material) has a 
claim for damages in addition to his remaining substantive rights under the contract. 
Damages are calculated on the assumption that both parties will continue to perform 
in spite of the breach. Dustman v. Advocate Aurora Health, Inc., 2021 IL App (4th) 
210157, ¶ 38 (citing 2 E. Allan Farnsworth, Farnsworth on Contracts § 8.15, at 437-
38 (2d ed. 1998)). To be sure, an injured party may sue for any damages caused by 
a material breach, but having elected to keep the contract in force, the injured party 
must continue to fulfill its obligations on pain of likewise incurring liability for a 
breach. Id. 
¶ 81 
 
I agree with my colleagues that PML and the Village, each having elected to 
keep the contract in force despite the mutual breaches, incurred liability for failing 

 
 
 
 
 
- 25 - 
to fulfill their respective contractual obligations. Therefore, I concur in the 
judgment. 
