Opinion issued May 14, 2024 
 
 
In The 
Court of Appeals 
For The 
First District of Texas 
———————————— 
NO. 01-21-00602-CV 
——————————— 
SENIOR CARE LIVING VI, LLC AND MARK C. BOULDIN, Appellants 
V. 
PRESTON HOLLOW CAPITAL, LLC, UMB BANK N.A., AND TMI 
TRUST COMPANY, Appellees 
 
 
On Appeal from the 458th District Court 
Fort Bend County, Texas 
Trial Court Case No. 19-DCV-265897 
 
 
OPINION ON REHEARING 
Appellant Mark C. Bouldin has filed a motion for rehearing of our November 
30, 2023, opinion and judgment. Additionally, appellee Preston Hollow Capital, 
LLC (“Preston Hollow”) has filed a motion for rehearing and a motion for en banc 

2 
 
reconsideration. We deny the motions for rehearing, withdraw our November 30, 
2023 opinion and judgment, and issue this opinion and judgment in their stead.1 
This case arises out of financing arrangements for the construction of an 
assisted living facility in Sugar Land, Texas. Appellant Senior Care Living VI, LLC 
(“Senior Care”) borrowed proceeds from the sale of bonds to construct the facility, 
and it signed a series of promissory notes reflecting this debt. Bouldin guaranteed 
payment of the notes. 
After appellees UMB Bank N.A. and TMI Trust Company, the purported 
successor trustees under the relevant documents, threatened foreclosure following 
Senior Care’s alleged default on the promissory notes, Senior Care sought a 
temporary restraining order and asserted claims for affirmative relief. Preston 
Hollow, the “Noteholder Representative” and “Series 2017A Majority 
Representative” under the relevant documents, intervened and sought recovery of 
the outstanding debt from Senior Care and from Bouldin on his guaranty. 
 
1  
Because we issue a new opinion, Preston Hollow’s motion for en banc 
reconsideration is moot. See In re Wagner, 560 S.W.3d 309, 312 (Tex. App.—
Houston [1st Dist.] 2017, orig. proceeding [mand. denied]) (“Because we issue a 
new opinion in connection with the denial of rehearing, the motion for en banc 
reconsideration is rendered moot.”); see also Poland v. Ott, 278 S.W.3d 39, 41 (Tex. 
App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2008, pet. denied) (noting that motion for en banc 
reconsideration is rendered moot by withdrawal and reissuance of opinion and 
judgment); Brookshire Bros., Inc. v. Smith, 176 S.W.3d 30, 41 n.4 (Tex. App.—
Houston [1st Dist.] 2004, pet. denied) (supp. op. on reh’g) (noting that motion for 
en banc reconsideration is moot when motion for rehearing is granted and new 
opinion and judgment issue). 

3 
 
The trial court rendered summary judgment that UMB Bank and TMI Trust 
Company were properly appointed as successor co-trustees. The trial court also 
dismissed two of Senior Care’s affirmative claims pursuant to a Rule 166(g) pretrial 
management order. After a bench trial, the trial court ruled for Preston Hollow on its 
claim for breach of the “Bond Documents,” finding that Senior Care had defaulted, 
the debt had been properly accelerated, and Bouldin was liable under his guaranty 
agreement for the accelerated debt on the promissory notes. The trial court entered 
judgment against Senior Care and Bouldin, jointly and severally, for $52,597,040.06 
in outstanding principal on the accelerated debt and pre-judgment interest, $250,000 
in trial-level attorney’s fees, and $520,000 in conditional appellate attorney’s fees. 
The court also appointed a post-judgment receiver for Senior Care with authority to 
sell the property. 
Both Senior Care and Bouldin filed notices of appeal. Senior Care raises six 
issues on appeal and contends that (1) the trial court erred in granting summary 
judgment that UMB Bank and TMI had been properly appointed as co-Master 
Trustees; (2) Preston Hollow lacked capacity to sue Senior Care because Preston 
Hollow had not provided the required notice to the Master Trustee to do so; 
(3) Preston Hollow failed to prove that Senior Care was liable for breach of the 
“Bond Documents” because, among other reasons, Preston Hollow failed to prove 
valid acceleration of the underlying debt; (4) Preston Hollow failed to prove the 

4 
 
amounts due under the promissory notes; (5) Preston Hollow was not entitled to a 
receivership because it did not plead for this relief;2 and (6) the trial court erred by 
dismissing Senior Care’s claims for conversion and money had and received 
pursuant to a Rule 166(g) pretrial management order. 
Bouldin raises five issues on appeal and contends that (1) Preston Hollow 
lacked the capacity to sue Bouldin on his guaranty agreement; (2) Preston Hollow 
cannot recover under the Master Indenture because that document had been 
amended, but Preston Hollow did not offer the amended document into evidence; 
(3) the evidence does not support the award of damages; (4) the “conditional” 
assertion of claims by UMB Bank and TMI do not support the judgment; and (5) the 
trial court erred by requiring Bouldin to pay attorney’s fees. 
We affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand for further proceedings. 
 
2  
During the pendency of this appeal, the receiver moved for a final accounting and 
sought to be discharged. On March 21, 2023, the trial court granted this request and, 
among other things, discharged the receiver from all duties, responsibilities, and 
obligations under the trial court’s post-judgment receivership order. We therefore 
conclude that Senior Care’s fifth issue is moot. See Glassdoor, Inc. v. Andra Grp., 
LP, 575 S.W.3d 523, 527 (Tex. 2019) (stating that case becomes moot during 
pendency of litigation if issues presented are no longer “live” or parties lack legally 
cognizable interest in outcome) (quoting Heckman v. Williamson Cnty., 369 S.W.3d 
137, 162 (Tex. 2012)). 

5 
 
Background 
A. 
The Transaction to Finance Construction of an Assisted Living Facility 
Mark Bouldin is the president and owner of Senior Care Ownership 3, Inc., 
the entity that manages Senior Care. Bouldin is a real estate developer who has 
developed numerous projects over the last twenty years, including several assisted 
living facilities for seniors throughout the southern United States. 
Around 2016, an engineer who works with Bouldin identified a property in 
Sugar Land that he believed would be ideal for a new assisted living facility called 
Inspired Living at Missouri City. Throughout the initial stages of development, 
Bouldin was also having discussions with Piper Jaffray, a bond underwriter, about 
the possibility of issuing bonds to raise funds to acquire the land and develop the 
facility. Eventually, an agreement was reached concerning the financing of the 
project through the issuance and sale of bonds, and the relevant parties executed a 
series of documents that set out the various rights and obligations. 
On January 1, 2017, Woodloch Health Facilities Development Corporation 
(“Woodloch”) issued four tiers of over $44 million in bonds: (1) $30,320,000 in tax-
exempt Series 2017A-1 bonds; (2) $2,580,000 in taxable Series 2017A-2 bonds; 
(3) $2,025,000 in taxable Series 2017A-3 bonds; and (4) $9,750,000 in subordinate 
Series 2017B bonds. Woodloch entered into a Trust Indenture and Security 
Agreement (“the Bond Indenture”) with Branch Banking and Trust Company 

6 
 
(“BB&T”), which agreed to serve as the Bond Trustee. Woodloch and BB&T are 
the only signatories to the Bond Indenture. Preston Hollow, which purchased over 
$21 million in Series 2017A-1 bonds, was named the “Series 2017A Majority 
Representative,” a position that had certain rights under the Bond Indenture, but it 
did not sign this document. 
The Bond Indenture contemplated that Woodloch would simultaneously enter 
into a Loan Agreement with Senior Care, under which Woodloch would loan the 
proceeds from the sale of the bonds to Senior Care. The Bond Indenture authorized 
the sale of the bonds, authorized the issuance of promissory notes (“the Notes”) to 
secure repayment of the loan to Senior Care, and assigned most of Woodloch’s rights 
as issuer of the bonds to BB&T as the Bond Trustee. The rights assigned to BB&T 
included Woodloch’s right to receive loan payments from Senior Care. 
The Bond Indenture set out the interest rate and maturity date for each series 
of bonds. This document also directed BB&T to establish several different funds 
with specific purposes for the bond proceeds and stated that all proceeds “shall be 
held by the Bond Trustee in trust and shall be applied only in accordance with the 
provisions of this Bond Indenture.” The Bond Indenture contained provisions 
describing what constitutes an “Event of Default,” and it allowed BB&T to 
accelerate payment of the unpaid principal and interest on the bonds and to exercise 
remedies upon default. The Bond Indenture also contained provisions authorizing 

7 
 
the appointment of co-Bond Trustees, allowing BB&T to resign as the Bond Trustee, 
and authorizing the appointment of a successor Bond Trustee. 
On the same date that Woodloch and BB&T signed the Bond Indenture, 
Woodloch and Senior Care entered into a Loan Agreement. In this agreement, 
Woodloch agreed to use the proceeds from the sale of the bonds to fund a loan to 
Senior Care by depositing the proceeds with BB&T, as provided in the Bond 
Indenture. Senior Care agreed to use the loan proceeds to “pay a portion of the costs 
of acquiring, constructing, developing, furnishing[,] and equipping” the assisted 
living facility. It also agreed to “make payments sufficient to pay the principal of, 
premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2017 Bonds when due.” Senior Care 
agreed to execute a series of promissory notes to secure payment of the loan, deliver 
the Notes to BB&T, and make all payments required by the Notes. 
In the Loan Agreement, Senior Care also agreed to promptly pay all lawful 
taxes assessed against the property; promptly pay or satisfy all indebtedness, claims, 
and demands against it; and ensure that no liens attached to the property. The Loan 
Agreement defined several “Events of Default,” including Senior Care’s failure to 
make any principal or interest payment on the Notes, Senior Care’s failure to 
perform or comply with any covenant contained in the Loan Agreement, and the 
occurrence of any “Event of Default” under another bond document. The agreement 

8 
 
allowed BB&T, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, to declare all payments 
due on the Notes to be immediately due and payable. 
Senior Care signed four promissory notes, one for each of the bond series 
issued by Woodloch. Each of the Notes required Senior Care to make interest 
payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning in 2017 and ending in 
the year the respective series of bonds matured. The Notes corresponding to the 
Series 2017A-2 bonds and the Series 2017B bonds required Senior Care to make 
yearly principal payments beginning December 1, 2021. For the Series 2017A-1 
Note, the yearly principal payment would not begin until December 1, 2028. For the 
Series 2017A-3 Note, the only principal payment would be on December 1, 2028, 
the date that series of bonds matured. Woodloch assigned each of the Notes to 
BB&T. 
As part of this transaction, Senior Care and BB&T, as the “Master Trustee,” 
signed a “Master Trust Indenture, Deed of Trust and Security Agreement” (“the 
Master Indenture”). In the Master Indenture, Senior Care granted a security interest 
to BB&T in “[a]ll revenue, Accounts (including any Blocked Account),3 accounts 
 
3  
Senior Care and BB&T as the Master Trustee also executed a “Blocked Account 
Control Agreement.” Under this agreement, BB&T maintained a deposit account 
for Senior Care’s benefit, and Senior Care granted BB&T, in its capacity as Master 
Trustee, a security interest in the funds contained in the account. The Master 
Indenture required Senior Care to “cause all Gross Revenues to be deposited into 
the Blocked Account” within seven business days of receipt. 

9 
 
receivable, and Gross Revenues” of Senior Care, in any amounts on deposit in the 
accounts required to be created under the Master Indenture and the Bond Indenture, 
and the property with improvements. Under the Master Indenture, BB&T held this 
property in trust “first, for the equal and proportionate benefit and security of the 
Holders from time to time of all of the Outstanding Senior Obligations . . . .” Preston 
Hollow, although not a signatory to the Master Indenture, was named the 
“Noteholder Representative” in this document, and it was granted certain rights. 
The Master Indenture contained extensive provisions governing all aspects of 
the relationship between Senior Care as the obligor, BB&T as the Master Trustee, 
and Preston Hollow as the Noteholder Representative. For example, the Master 
Indenture required BB&T to establish several separate funds to be used for specific 
purposes and directed the priority in which BB&T was to transfer funds to each 
account. In several instances, Preston Hollow as the Noteholder Representative was 
granted authority to direct BB&T to take certain actions. For example, if Preston 
Hollow determined that the balance of the Insurance and Tax Escrow Fund was not 
sufficient to pay Senior Care’s tax obligations, Senior Care could be ordered to 
deposit additional amounts into that fund. 
Senior Care’s obligations under the Master Indenture mirrored the obligations 
imposed upon it in the other key documents. Senior Care agreed to “duly and 
punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the 

10 
 
Obligations.” It further agreed to pay or discharge all taxes before delinquency, as 
well as “all lawful claims for labor, materials, and supplies which, if unpaid, might 
by law become a lien upon its Property.” Senior Care also agreed that it “will not 
create or permit to be created or remain and, at its cost and expense, [will] promptly 
discharge or terminate all Liens on its Property.” Senior Care agreed that, during the 
construction process, it would not accept any change orders without Preston 
Hollow’s written consent, nor would it amend the terms of any construction 
documents without Preston Hollow’s prior written consent. 
“Events of Default” under the Master Indenture included: (1) “default in the 
payment of any Senior Obligation when it becomes due and payable”; (2) failure to 
make any required deposits under the Master Indenture; (3) failure to pay any debt 
owed by Senior Care; (4) failure to cause gross revenues to be deposited into the 
Blocked Account; and (5) failure to perform any covenant in the Master Indenture. 
Upon an Event of Default, BB&T had the authority to accelerate the debt and declare 
the principal of the Obligations due immediately. The Master Indenture also granted 
Preston Hollow the ability to exercise remedies upon default “in lieu of the Master 
Trustee.” The Master Indenture, like the Bond Indenture, contained provisions 
allowing for the resignation of BB&T as Master Trustee and the appointment of a 
successor Master Trustee. 

11 
 
Senior Care also entered into a “Construction Disbursement and Monitoring 
Agreement” (“the CDMA”) with BB&T, Preston Hollow as the Series 2017A 
Majority Representative, and Fulcrum, LLC, an entity that served as a “Construction 
Monitor” during the building of the assisted living facility. Among other things, the 
CDMA set out the process for Senior Care to make disbursement requests for the 
payment of loan proceeds during construction. Preston Hollow played an active role 
in this process, approving requests for disbursement and ordering BB&T to make 
payments from specific accounts required under the Master Indenture and Bond 
Indenture. The CDMA, like the Master Indenture, required Senior Care to submit 
change orders over a certain amount to Preston Hollow for approval. Although the 
CDMA could be amended, an amendment would only be effective if made by “a 
written instrument signed by the parties.” 
Finally, Bouldin executed a Guaranty Agreement (“the Guaranty”).4 Bouldin 
“guarantee[d] to the Master Trustee (for the benefit of the Holders) (collectively, the 
“Guaranteed Parties”), the full, complete and prompt payment of the principal and 
redemption price, if any, of and interest on the Series 2017 Notes when due, whether 
 
4  
Bouldin also signed a “Completion Guaranty” in which he “guarantee[d] to the 
Master Trustee (for the benefit of the Holders and the holders of the Series 2017 
Bonds) the full, prompt and complete performance by [Senior Care] of all [Senior 
Care’s] obligations with respect to the design, permitting, installation, construction 
and completion of the Improvements, subject to the terms and conditions of the 
Loan Documents.” The Completion Guaranty is not at issue in this appeal. 

12 
 
at stated maturity . . . acceleration or otherwise” upon the occurrence of certain 
specified events. These events included: (1) the filing of a mechanic’s or 
materialmen’s lien against the property; (2) Senior Care’s failure to pay any portion 
of its Gross Revenues to the Master Trustee as required by the Master Indenture; and 
(3) an action by Senior Care or Bouldin to contest, delay, interfere with, or fail to 
cooperate with “the Master Trustee’s exercise of remedies provided under the Bond 
Documents or any guaranty after the occurrence of an Event of Default.” 
Bouldin also agreed to be liable to “the Guaranteed Parties in all instances for 
any loss, damage, cost, expense, liability or claim incurred by Guaranteed Parties” 
arising out of certain other events. These events included Senior Care’s failure to 
pay “other charges required to be paid by [Senior Care] under the Bond Documents” 
and “charges for labor or materials or other charges that can create liens on the 
Property.” The Guaranty provided that “any Guaranteed Party,” following an Event 
of Default, could proceed directly against Bouldin prior to making a demand upon 
Senior Care. The Guaranty is the only document in connection with this transaction 
that Bouldin signed in his individual capacity, and not in his capacity as the president 
of the entity that manages Senior Care. 
B. 
Senior Care’s Alleged Default on the Promissory Notes 
Senior Care contracted with an Iowa-based company, Baxter Construction 
Company (“Baxter”), to build the assisted living facility. Bouldin had worked with 

13 
 
Baxter prior to the project that is the subject of this appeal. The “Guaranteed 
Maximum Price” to which Baxter was entitled for construction costs was 
$22,240,000. Baxter also served as the general contractor for another construction 
project that occurred at roughly the same time as this project: the construction of an 
Inspired Living assisted living facility in Lewisville, Texas, near Dallas. The owner 
of that property and facility was Senior Care Living VII, LLC.  
Construction on the Sugar Land facility proceeded throughout 2017 without 
any major issues. With construction substantially complete, Senior Care obtained a 
Certificate of Occupancy around December 2017. However, in 2018, a dispute arose 
with Baxter over whether Baxter was entitled to more than $1 million in additional 
funds based on change orders. Senior Care did not believe that these requests were 
valid. Nevertheless, to settle the dispute, Senior Care, Bouldin, and Baxter entered 
into a “Side Letter Agreement Regarding Payments to Baxter Construction 
Company” (“the Side Letter Agreement”) in August 2018.5 
In the Side Letter Agreement, Baxter agreed that it was still bound by 
provisions in the CDMA that required it to obtain unconditional lien waivers from 
each of its subcontractors prior to final payment. Senior Care agreed that, upon 
receipt of these documents, it would “promptly seek payment to Baxter for all 
 
5  
This agreement also addressed a payment dispute that had arisen between Baxter 
and Senior Care Living VII, the entity that owned the assisted living facility being 
built in Lewisville, Texas. 

14 
 
amounts due Baxter pursuant to the Baxter Payment Documents” by delivering the 
documents to Preston Hollow, which had the right to approve disbursement requests 
under the CDMA. Baxter acknowledged that “the timing of payments” was 
“partially dependent upon parties to the CDMA which are not under the control of 
any party hereto.” 
Senior Care and Baxter also agreed that, upon sale of the assisted living 
facility, Senior Care would pay Baxter up to a maximum amount of $472,500. Senior 
Care further agreed that, until that payment had been made, “any dividends or 
distributions payable to Bouldin are secured by and must be forwarded . . . to 
Baxter.” Bouldin agreed that “an amount equal to any dividends or distributions that 
Bouldin directly or indirectly receives” is “deemed to be held in trust by Bouldin for 
the benefit of Baxter and must be forwarded by Bouldin to Baxter.” Baxter agreed 
that these specified payments “shall be deemed secured obligations and when timely 
paid in the manner provided herein shall be in full satisfaction for all outstanding 
amounts owed to Baxter for its work.” Baxter further acknowledged that its rights to 
payment were subordinate to the rights of the Master Trustee and the bondholders. 
Preston Hollow was aware that Senior Care and Baxter had an ongoing dispute 
concerning payment, but it did not see the Side Letter Agreement until several 
months after that agreement had been signed. In December 2018, Baxter submitted 
its final payment request of $1,762,308.80 to Senior Care. It is undisputed that 

15 
 
Baxter had not obtained all lien waivers from its subcontractors. Despite this, Senior 
Care submitted Baxter’s payment request to Preston Hollow. Preston Hollow 
requested that Senior Care provide it with additional information, including the Side 
Letter Agreement, and it also communicated directly with Baxter concerning the 
payment dispute. Ultimately, Preston Hollow did not approve the disbursement 
request to Baxter, and Baxter filed a lien against the property in March 2019.6 
At the same time that Senior Care sought disbursement of $1.7 million to pay 
Baxter, it also sought disbursement of approximately $574,000 to pay its property 
taxes that were due on January 31, 2019. A Preston Hollow employee replied that 
“there is not a line item in the project budget for [real estate taxes] and funding for 
this line item via project fund appears to run contrary to the Master Trust Indenture.” 
This employee stated, “[I]t appears that real estate taxes are to be funded by [Senior 
 
6  
Senior Care has consistently taken the position that Baxter’s lien is untimely 
because Baxter finished construction in January 2018 but did not file a lien affidavit 
until March 2019. Senior Care also filed a separate lawsuit against Baxter seeking 
a declaratory judgment that the lien was void and asserting that the lien was an 
unlawful cloud on Senior Care’s title. Baxter moved to dismiss Senior Care’s suit 
under the Texas Citizen’s Participation Act. After the trial court denied the motion 
to dismiss, Baxter filed an interlocutory appeal. Shortly before trial in the underlying 
proceeding, this Court issued an opinion affirming the trial court’s denial of the 
motion to dismiss. See Baxter Constr. Co. v. Senior Care Living VI, LLC, No. 01-
19-00728-CV, 2021 WL 1916476, at *3–4 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] May 
13, 2021, no pet.) (mem. op.). 

16 
 
Care].” Preston Hollow did not agree to disburse funds to pay the property taxes, 
and those taxes became delinquent.7 
On March 25, 2019, at the direction of Preston Hollow, BB&T sent a “Notice 
of Covenant Breaches and Events of Default and Demand Letter” to Bouldin and 
Senior Care. This letter stated that Baxter alleged that it was owed over $2.2 million 
for work performed on the project; Baxter had recorded a lien affidavit and claim in 
the amount of $1,762,308.80 with the Fort Bend County Clerk; and Senior Care 
owed approximately $614,000 in assessed and unpaid taxes to three Fort Bend 
County taxing authorities. The letter informed Senior Care that its failure to pay 
Baxter’s claim within 30 days of the notice would constitute an “Event of Default” 
under the bond documents. BB&T demanded that Senior Care pay $852,777.11—
representing the difference between the amount of Baxter’s claim and the amount of 
funds currently on deposit in the Project Fund—within 30 days. BB&T also made a 
demand upon Bouldin that he fully pay Baxter’s claim pursuant to the Completion 
Guaranty that he signed. BB&T also stated that Senior Care’s failure to extinguish 
Baxter’s lien within 30 days and pay the unpaid taxes within 30 days would also 
constitute “Events of Default.” 
 
7  
Ultimately, Preston Hollow approved payment of the property taxes in June 2019 
after BB&T had declared Senior Care in default on the Notes and accelerated the 
balance of the loan. 

17 
 
On April 8, 2019, BB&T sent Senior Care and Bouldin a “Supplemental 
Notice of Breaches and Events of Default and Notice of Intent to Accelerate.” In this 
letter, BB&T referenced its March 25 letter and stated that if Senior Care failed to 
timely cure the conditions set out in the previous letter, BB&T or Preston Hollow 
“shall declare an Event of Default under each of the related Bond Documents and 
accelerate (subject to further election and notice to you) and declare immediately 
due and payable all amounts due and owing pursuant to” the various bond 
documents. 
On May 31, 2019, BB&T sent a “Notice of Events of Default under the Bond 
Documents and Acceleration of Maturity of Notes and Bonds.”8 BB&T stated that 
Senior Care had failed to cure the conditions set out in the two previous letters. 
Therefore, BB&T, at Preston Hollow’s direction, declared that an “Event of Default” 
had occurred under the Bond Indenture, the Master Indenture, and the Loan 
Agreement. BB&T declared that the Notes and the bonds were accelerated and that 
the entire principal of the Notes and the unpaid principal and interest on the bonds 
were immediately due and payable in full. On June 3, 2019, Bouldin acknowledged 
in an email to Gregory Yanok, a vice president at BB&T and Bouldin’s main point 
 
8  
The day after this notice, on June 1, 2019, an interest payment was due on the Notes. 
BB&T applied proceeds from a reserve account to this payment, and therefore 
Senior Care was able to meet this obligation. Senior Care has not, however, made 
any further interest payments. 

18 
 
of contact, that Senior Care had received a copy of the acceleration notice. Bouldin 
requested a payoff statement for the total outstanding amount owed. It is undisputed 
that neither BB&T nor Preston Hollow provided a payoff statement to Senior Care. 
In early July 2019, Yanok notified Bouldin via email that BB&T intended to 
resign as the Master Trustee and Bond Trustee and that TMI “will succeed us as 
Trustee.” Bouldin acknowledged BB&T’s resignation and stated that he would “take 
a look at TMI . . . since [Senior Care] picks the Trustee and Successor Trustee” and 
would “let [Yanok] know shortly who we’d like to go with.” In a later email, Bouldin 
indicated that Senior Care’s management company was “looking into” who it 
wanted as a successor trustee. Bouldin stated that he did not “think the appointment 
of the successor is necessary before you resign.” Yanok responded, “We need to 
appoint a successor for the sake of resignation. I [believe] you can appoint anyone 
thereafter[.]” 
On July 12, 2019, BB&T appointed TMI and UMB Bank as co-trustees under 
the Master Indenture and the Bond Indenture. This notice stated that UMB Bank and 
TMI “have agreed to assume the role of co-Trustee for each of these trusts,” and 
stated that if BB&T resigns, “the co-Trustees shall succeed to all roles and 
responsibilities of the predecessor Trustee.” 
On July 17, 2019, BB&T sent Senior Care a written “Notice of Trustee 
Resignation.” This notice informed Senior Care that BB&T was resigning as Master 

19 
 
Trustee and Bond Trustee. BB&T also “recognize[d] the authority of the duly-
appointed co-Trustee(s), TMI Trust Company (‘TMI’) and UMB Financial 
Corporation (‘UMB’)” to serve as successor Master Trustees and Bond Trustees. 
Preston Hollow, as the Noteholder Representative and Series 2017A Majority 
Representative, sent a notice to all parties on October 10, 2019, “further 
memorializ[ing]” BB&T’s resignation as Master Trustee and Bond Trustee and the 
appointment of UMB Bank and TMI as co-successor Master Trustee and Bond 
Trustee. 
Preston Hollow and UMB Bank sent notices of additional “Events of Default” 
by Senior Care in October 2019, after the debt had already been accelerated and 
Senior Care had filed suit. These alleged defaults included Senior Care’s failure to 
deposit Gross Revenues into the Blocked Account; the transfer of over $300,000 
from Senior Care to Senior Care Living VII, the owner of the Lewisville assisted 
living facility; and Senior Care’s failure to replenish the debt service reserve fund 
after money in that fund was used to make Senior Care’s June 1, 2019 interest 
payment on the Notes. Preston Hollow and UMB Bank did not learn about these 
alleged defaults until after the original default notices were sent in March, April, and 
May 2019. 

20 
 
C. 
Procedural Background 
In August 2019, UMB Bank posted the property for a foreclosure sale in early 
September. Senior Care then filed the underlying proceeding against UMB Bank and 
TMI.9 Initially, neither Bouldin nor Preston Hollow were parties to this proceeding.10 
Senior Care sought injunctive relief to halt the pending foreclosure sale and to 
prohibit UMB Bank and TMI from taking any action under the bond documents. 
Senior Care also sought a declaratory judgment that (1) the appointment of UMB 
Bank and TMI as Bond Trustees “is void and of no effect”; (2) Senior Care was 
entitled to select a successor Bond Trustee under the provisions of the Master 
Indenture; and (3) Senior Care was not in default under the Loan Agreement or 
Master Indenture. 
UMB Bank, in its capacities as co-successor Master Trustee and co-successor 
Bond Trustee, asserted a counterclaim for breach of contract, alleging that Senior 
 
9  
Senior Care also sued Wade Williams, the substitute trustee under the deed of trust 
securing the property. Senior Care subsequently nonsuited its claims against 
Williams. No judgment was rendered against Williams, and he is not a party to this 
appeal. 
 
10  
Prior to Senior Care’s lawsuit, Preston Hollow filed suit against Bouldin in federal 
district court. Bouldin argued that Senior Care was a necessary party and suit could 
not proceed against him alone. After Preston Hollow added Senior Care as a 
defendant, the federal district court dismissed the case due to lack of diversity of 
citizenship. 
 

21 
 
Care had failed to comply with its obligations under the “Bond Documents.”11 As 
damages, UMB Bank sought recovery of the outstanding amount of principal on the 
bonds—$44,675,000—as well as interest, fees, and costs. UMB Bank also sought a 
declaration that it and TMI had been appropriately appointed co-successor Bond 
Trustees under the Bond Indenture and co-successor Master Trustees under the 
Master Indenture. Additionally, UMB Bank sought appointment of a receiver for 
Senior Care. 
Preston Hollow filed a petition in intervention and adopted UMB Bank’s 
counterclaims. Preston Hollow also filed a separate suit against Bouldin on the 
Guaranty, and it requested that the trial court consolidate the two cases. The trial 
court consolidated the cases, and Bouldin became a party to the underlying 
proceeding. After Preston Hollow became a party and asserted claims, UMB Bank 
and TMI “conditionally asserted” the same claims against Senior Care and Bouldin 
that Preston Hollow asserted. These claims included a claim against Senior Care for 
breach of contract and a claim against Bouldin under the Guaranty. 
After the trial court granted Preston Hollow’s motion to consolidate, Senior 
Care filed an amended petition. In this amended petition, Senior Care alleged that 
 
11  
The trial court’s Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law defined “Bond 
Documents” as the Bond Indenture, the Master Indenture, the Loan Agreement, the 
Deed of Trust, the Guaranty Agreement, the Completion Guaranty, and “all other 
documents executed in connection with the bonds.” 

22 
 
Preston Hollow had tortiously interfered with the Side Letter Agreement and the 
bond documents by, among other things, wrongfully declaring default and 
wrongfully refusing to authorize requested disbursements. Senior Care alleged that 
UMB Bank and TMI had tortiously interfered with the bond documents by acting as 
Master Trustees without authority to do so. It alleged that if Preston Hollow was a 
party to the bond documents, Preston Hollow breached the documents by improperly 
declaring a default and accelerating the debt. Senior Care also alleged that Preston 
Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI had converted its property by wrongfully exercising 
control over money held by BB&T. In connection with the conversion claim, Senior 
Care also asserted a claim for money had and received. Senior Care continued to 
seek declaratory relief. 
During the pendency of the proceedings, UMB Bank and TMI moved for the 
appointment of a receiver. In July 2020, the trial court entered a consent order, noting 
that UMB Bank, TMI, Preston Hollow, and Senior Care had all consented to the 
appointment of Michael Morgan of Healthcare Management Partners, LLC, as the 
receiver of Senior Care’s property. Morgan, as the receiver, was given complete 
control over the property, as well as the right to operate the assisted living facility. 
The parties also filed cross-motions for partial summary judgment. Senior 
Care, in its motions, sought summary judgment that UMB Bank and TMI had not 
properly been appointed as co-successor Master Trustees under the terms of the 

23 
 
Master Indenture, which contemplated that Senior Care, as the Obligor, should have 
the first choice for appointing a successor Master Trustee upon BB&T’s resignation. 
As a result, UMB Bank and TMI had no capacity or standing to bring any affirmative 
claims against Senior Care and their claims should therefore be dismissed. With 
respect to Preston Hollow, Senior Care argued in a separate summary judgment 
motion that Preston Hollow lacked capacity to assert any claims against Senior Care 
because the Master Indenture provided limited authority for Preston Hollow, as the 
Noteholder Representative, to seek remedies in lieu of the Master Trustee, and it 
could only do so if it had provided notice to the Master Trustee. 
Bouldin moved for summary judgment against Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, 
and TMI on their claims that he was liable to them under the Guaranty. Specifically, 
Bouldin argued that the only parties to the Guaranty were Bouldin himself and 
BB&T as Master Trustee; Preston Hollow was not a party to the Guaranty, and 
therefore it could not sue him to enforce the Guaranty. He further argued that, to the 
extent Preston Hollow relied on provisions in the Master Indenture that allowed it, 
as the Noteholder Representative, to pursue certain remedies, Preston Hollow could 
not pursue such remedies against Bouldin, who was not a party to the Master 
Indenture. Bouldin also argued that even if Preston Hollow could enforce the 
Guaranty, none of the events that would trigger Bouldin’s liability under the 
Guaranty had occurred. 

24 
 
In response to Senior Care’s summary judgment motion, UMB Bank, and 
TMI argued that the language of the Master Indenture allowed both the Master 
Trustee and the Noteholder Representative to “undertake remedial action in 
conjunction with one another.” UMB Bank and TMI also sought partial summary 
judgment, arguing that they had been properly appointed as co-successor trustees 
under the relevant bond documents, and therefore they had capacity to pursue claims 
against Senior Care. 
The trial court signed an order granting UMB Bank and TMI’s summary 
judgment motion. The court granted declaratory judgment and ruled that UMB Bank 
and TMI had been properly appointed as co-successor Master Trustees and co-
successor Bond Trustees. The court denied Senior Care’s and Bouldin’s summary 
judgment motions. 
Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI also filed motions for a pretrial 
determination of a legal matter under Rule of Civil Procedure 166(g) on several of 
Senior Care’s claims. Relevant to this appeal, the defendants argued that the trial 
court could rule as a matter of law that Senior Care’s claims for conversion and 
money had and received should be dismissed because (1) UMB Bank and TMI were 
properly appointed as co-successor Bond Trustees under the Bond Indenture and 
therefore could exercise control over funds held by the trustee; (2) the Bond 
Indenture provided that the funds were held in trust for the benefit of the 

25 
 
bondholders, and therefore the funds did not belong to Senior Care; (3) Preston 
Hollow was expressly entitled to approve or disapprove of disbursement requests for 
funds held by the trustee; and (4) the claims were barred by the economic loss rule. 
The trial court granted this motion and dismissed Senior Care’s claims for 
conversion and money had and received before trial. 
Over the course of a week, the trial court heard testimony on the parties’ 
claims in a bench trial. The parties also agreed to submit documentary evidence 
concerning their attorney’s fees, and the trial court reviewed this evidence as well. 
The court signed a final judgment on August 4, 2021. This judgment incorporated 
the court’s pretrial summary judgment ruling granting a declaratory judgment that 
UMB Bank and TMI were duly appointed as co-successor Bond Trustees under the 
Bond Indenture and co-successor Master Trustees under the Master Indenture. The 
court also incorporated its Rule 166(g) ruling dismissing Senior Care’s claims for 
conversion and money had and received. 
The court ordered that Senior Care take nothing on its affirmative claims. It 
further ordered that Preston Hollow, in its capacities as the Noteholder 
Representative under the Master Indenture and the Series 2017A Majority 
Representative under the Bond Indenture, be granted judgment against Senior Care 
on Preston Hollow’s breach of contract claim and against Bouldin under the 
Guaranty. The court awarded Preston Hollow $52,597,040.06 in damages against 

26 
 
Senior Care and Bouldin, jointly and severally, with this amount consisting of 
$44,675,000 in outstanding principal, $7,407,359.79 in pre-judgment interest 
through the start date of the trial, and $514,680.27 in pre-judgment interest from the 
second day of trial through the date of judgment. 
The court further awarded Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI $250,000 in 
unpaid attorney’s fees and litigation expenses, plus a total of $520,000 in conditional 
appellate attorney’s fees. The court also re-appointed Michael Morgan as the post-
judgment receiver and issued a separate order setting out his rights and duties. The 
court denied “all other claims and causes of action.” The trial court also issued 
extensive findings of fact and conclusions of law in support of its judgment.12 
Senior Care and Bouldin moved for a new trial. These motions were overruled 
by operation of law, and both Senior Care and Bouldin filed notices of appeal. 
Appointment of Successor Trustees 
In its first issue, Senior Care argues that the trial court erred by granting UMB 
Bank and TMI’s summary judgment motion and ruling that UMB Bank and TMI 
were properly appointed as co-successor Master Trustees under the Master 
Indenture. Senior Care also argues that the trial court erroneously denied Senior 
Care’s summary judgment motion on this issue. 
 
12  
Although Senior Care and Bouldin requested that the trial court enter additional and 
amended findings of fact and conclusions of law, the trial court did not do so. 

27 
 
A. 
Standard of Review 
We review a trial court’s summary judgment ruling de novo. Hlavinka v. HSC 
Pipeline P’ship, LLC, 650 S.W.3d 483, 491 (Tex. 2022). When parties file cross 
motions for summary judgment, each party bears the burden of establishing that it is 
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. City of Richardson v. Oncor Elec. Delivery 
Co., 539 S.W.3d 252, 259 (Tex. 2018); TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c). When the trial court 
grants one motion and denies the other, we must determine all questions presented 
and render the judgment the trial court should have rendered. City of Richardson, 
539 S.W.3d at 259. 
Construction of a contract is also a question of law that we review de novo. 
Sundown Energy LP v. HJSA No. 3, Ltd. P’ship, 622 S.W.3d 884, 888 (Tex. 2021) 
(per curiam). When construing a contract, our primary concern is to give effect to 
the “written expression of the parties’ intent.” Id. (quotations omitted). We must 
construe words in the context in which they are used, but we cannot interpret a 
contract to ignore clearly defined terms. Id. (quotations omitted); URI, Inc. v. 
Kleberg Cnty., 543 S.W.3d 755, 764 (Tex. 2018) (stating that we interpret contract 
language according to its plain, ordinary, and generally accepted meaning unless 
instrument directs otherwise). We must also avoid construing contracts in a way that 
renders the contractual language meaningless. Sundown Energy, 622 S.W.3d at 888. 

28 
 
B. 
Whether UMB Bank and TMI Were Properly Appointed as Co-Successor 
Master Trustees 
Both the Master Indenture and the Bond Indenture contain provisions 
governing the resignation of the initial Master Trustee and Bond Trustee and the 
appointment of successor trustees. 
Section 8.09 of the Master Indenture provides: 
(a) 
No resignation or removal of the Master Trustee and no 
appointment of a successor Master Trustee pursuant to this Article shall 
become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor 
Master Trustee under Section 8.10. 
 
(b) 
The Master Trustee may resign at any time by giving written 
notice thereof to the Obligor. If an instrument of acceptance by a 
successor Master Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Master 
Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, 
the resigning Master Trustee may petition any court of competent 
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Master Trustee. 
 
(c) 
The Master Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the 
Majority Holders or the Noteholder Representative delivered to the 
Master Trustee and to the Obligor. 
 
Section 8.09(e) specifically governs appointment of a successor Master 
Trustee and provides: 
If the Master Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of 
acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Master Trustee for 
any cause, the Obligor, by an Obligor Request, shall promptly appoint 
a successor Master Trustee with the consent of the Noteholder 
Representative (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). If, 
within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the 
occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Master Trustee shall be 
appointed by Act of the Noteholder Representative delivered to the 
Obligor and the retiring Master Trustee, the successor Master Trustee 
so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, 

29 
 
become the successor Master Trustee and supersede the successor 
Master Trustee appointed by the Obligor. If no successor Master 
Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Obligor or the Noteholder 
Representative and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter 
provided, the Master Trustee or any Holder of Obligations who has 
been a bona fide Holder of an Obligation for at least 6 months may, on 
behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of 
competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Master 
Trustee. 
 
Section 8.10 requires every successor Master Trustee to execute an instrument 
accepting the appointment and deliver the acceptance to the Obligor and the retiring 
Master Trustee. The resignation of the retiring Master Trustee then becomes 
effective, and the successor Master Trustee becomes “vested with all the rights, 
powers, trusts, and duties of the retiring Master Trustee.” 
 
Section 8.13 addresses the appointment of co-trustees. Under this section, 
“[a]t any time or times . . . the Obligor and the Master Trustee shall have power to 
appoint, one or more Persons to act as co-trustee jointly with the Master Trustee of 
all or any part of the Trust Estate, with the power to file such proofs of claim and 
take such other actions pursuant to Article VII herein to make such claims and 
enforce such rights of action on behalf of the Holders . . . .” Section 8.13(b) directs 
that Senior Care, as Obligor, “shall join with the Master Trustee in the execution, 
delivery and performance of all instruments and agreements necessary or proper to 
appoint a co-trustee,” but if it does not “join in such appointment” within 15 days of 

30 
 
being asked to do so, “the Master Trustee shall have power to make such 
appointment on its own.” 
 
The Bond Indenture also contains provisions governing the resignation of the 
Bond Trustee and appointment of a successor. Section 906 allows the Bond Trustee 
to resign at any time by providing 30 days’ notice to the Issuer, Obligor, and “each 
Holder of Bonds then Outstanding.” The Bond Indenture provides as follows with 
respect to the appointment of a successor Bond Trustee: 
(a) 
In case the Bond Trustee hereunder shall resign . . . a successor 
may be appointed by the Series 2017A Majority Representative or, if 
there is no Series 2017A Majority Representative, the Obligor, by an 
instrument or concurrent instruments in writing signed by such 
Holders; provided, however, that in case of such vacancy the Issuer by 
an instrument signed by the President may appoint a temporary Bond 
Trustee to fill such vacancy until a successor Bond Trustee shall be 
appointed by the Series 2017A Majority Representative, or, if there is 
no Series 2017A Majority Representative, the Obligor, in the manner 
provided above; and any such temporary Bond Trustee so appointed 
shall immediately and without further act be superseded by the Bond 
Trustee so appointed by the Series 2017A Majority Representative or, 
if there is no Series 2017A Majority Representative, the Obligor. 
 
Section 916 of the Bond Indenture—like section 8.13 of the Master 
Indenture—gives the Issuer (Woodloch) and the Bond Trustee the power to appoint 
a co-trustee. The Issuer “shall join with the Bond Trustee” in executing all 
instruments necessary to appoint a co-trustee, but if the Issuer does not join in such 
appointment within 15 days, “the Bond Trustee shall have power to make such 
appointment on its own.” In the summary judgment proceedings, Senior Care argued 

31 
 
only that UMB Bank’s and TMI’s appointments as Master Trustee under the Master 
Indenture were improper. It did not challenge UMB Bank’s and TMI’s appointments 
under the Bond Indenture. 
 
The summary judgment evidence includes an email exchange between Yanok, 
on behalf of BB&T, and Bouldin that occurred in early July 2019. At that point, 
BB&T had already sent the notices declaring Senior Care in default and accelerating 
the debt. On July 5, 2019, Yanok informed Bouldin that BB&T intended to resign 
as trustee and “TMI Trust Company will succeed us as Trustee.” Yanok stated that 
“[f]or the immediate future, we will maintain the present Agency duties (Registrar 
and Paying Agent) until such time as we transition those functions to TMI.” On July 
8, 2019, Bouldin responded and stated: “I’ll take a look at TMI (I’m unfamiliar with 
them currently), since the Obligor picks the Trustee and Successor Trustee, I’ll let 
you know shortly who we’d like to go with.” 
On July 9, 2019, after Yanok asked Bouldin if he could send certain 
information on Senior Care to TMI, Bouldin responded that Senior Care’s 
management company was “looking into whom they want as a successor trustee.” 
Bouldin then stated, “So it probably doesn’t make sense to get anyone else working 
on it until they decide. I don’t think the appointment of the successor is necessary 
before you resign though if you’re in a time crunch for some reason.” Yanok replied: 

32 
 
“We need to appoint a successor for the sake of resignation. I [believe] you can 
appoint anyone thereafter[.]” 
On July 12, 2019, three days after Yanok and Bouldin’s email exchange 
concluded, Yanok, on behalf of BB&T, sent Senior Care a “Notice of Co-Trustee 
Appointment.” This notice stated: 
In accordance with the indentures (Indentures) for the referenced bond 
trusts, Branch Banking and Trust Company (“BB&T[”]), as Trustee 
(“Trustee”) has exercised its right to appoint co-Trustees for said trusts. 
[TMI Trust Company (“TMI”) and UMB Financial Corporation 
(“UMB”), collectively and severally] have agreed to assume the role of 
co-Trustee for each of these trusts, thereby also assuming all rights and 
responsibilities of the Trustee under the respective indentures and 
respective governing documents. Furthermore and in the event that the 
Trustee resigns or is removed, the co-Trustees shall succeed to all roles 
and responsibilities of the predecessor Trustee. 
 
Five days later, on July 17, 2019, Yanok sent Senior Care a “Notice of Trustee 
Resignation.” In this document, BB&T gave notice of its intent to resign as “Trustee 
for said trusts, effective immediately and in no event longer than the 30 days after 
this notice as provided under the Indentures and governing documents.” BB&T also 
“recognizes the authority of the duly-appointed co-Trustee(s), TMI Trust Company 
(“TMI”) and UMB Financial Corporation (“UMB”), collectively and severally, to 
also serve also as successor Trustee(s) and upon resignation or removal of the 
Trustee to thereby assume to all rights and responsibilities of the Trustee under the 
Indentures and governing documents.” 

33 
 
On October 10, 2019, Preston Hollow sent a notice memorializing BB&T’s 
two prior notices. Preston Hollow stated that BB&T had resigned as Master Trustee 
and Bond Trustee. Pursuant to a July 8, 2019 “Co-Trustee Appointment Agreement,” 
TMI and UMB Bank had accepted the appointment as co-successor Master Trustees 
and Bond Trustees, and Preston Hollow as the Noteholder Representative and Series 
2017A Majority Representative consented. In a declaration included as an exhibit in 
the summary judgment proceedings, Bouldin declared that Senior Care’s “consent 
to the appointment of either UMB Bank or TMI Trust Company” was not obtained, 
and Senior Care “was not given any right to select or approve the appointment of 
any substitute trustee.” 
 
The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of UMB Bank and TMI. 
In its order, the court declared that UMB Bank and TMI are “duly appointed and 
acting co-successor Bond Trustee[s] under the Bond Indenture” and are “duly 
appointed and acting co-successor Master Trustee[s] under the Master Indenture, 
made the subject of this lawsuit, respectively.” The court incorporated its ruling into 
the final judgment and again declared that UMB Bank and TMI were duly appointed 
and acting co-successor Bond Trustees and co-successor Master Trustees. In Finding 
of Fact Number 8, the court found that “[i]n July 2019, UMB Bank, N.A. (‘UMB’) 
and TMI Trust Company (‘TMI’) were properly appointed co-successor Master 

34 
 
Trustees under the Master Indenture and co-successor Bond Trustees under the Bond 
Indenture, in place of BBT.”13 
 
Senior Care argues that the Master Indenture contains plain language 
concerning the appointment of a successor Master Trustee, but the language was not 
followed here. Specifically, Section 8.09(e) of the Master Indenture contemplates 
that Senior Care has the first choice of appointing a successor Master Trustee upon 
BB&T’s resignation. Senior Care contends that because the Master Indenture was 
not followed, UMB Bank’s and TMI’s appointments as successor Master Trustees 
are void, and they may not maintain any cause of action against Senior Care. 
 
UMB Bank and TMI, on the other hand, argue that BB&T permissibly 
appointed UMB Bank and TMI as co-trustees under Section 8.13 of the Master 
Indenture—an act which did not require Senior Care’s consent—and then resigned 
as Master Trustee, leaving UMB Bank and TMI as its successors. 
We agree with UMB Bank and TMI that their appointment as co-trustees by 
BB&T under Section 8.13 was effective. The summary judgment evidence 
demonstrates that on July 12, 2019, BB&T sent a notice appointing UMB Bank and 
TMI as co-trustees under the Master Indenture and Bond Indenture. Section 8.13 of 
 
13  
In Conclusion of Law Number 72, the trial court concluded that UMB Bank and 
TMI were appointed as co-successor Master Trustees and co-successor Bond 
Trustees under the relevant indentures “and, therefore, have capacity and standing 
to sue, as does the Representative [Preston Hollow] pursuant to section 7.20 of the 
Master Indenture.” 

35 
 
the Master Indenture explicitly vests the Master Trustee with “power to appoint” one 
or more persons to “act as co-trustee jointly with the Master Trustee.” 
 
Senior Care argues that BB&T’s action of appointing UMB Bank and TMI as 
co-trustees was a “nullity” because BB&T did not have the authority to act 
unilaterally in making this appointment; instead, BB&T was required to obtain 
Senior Care’s consent. The plain language of the contract refutes this argument. 
Section 8.13 contemplates that the Obligor and the Master Trustee “shall join” in the 
execution of instruments necessary for such an appointment, but this section also 
gives the Master Trustee the power to make the appointment “on its own” if the 
Obligor does not join. The Master Indenture itself thus allowed BB&T, as Master 
Trustee, to appoint co-trustees, even if Senior Care did not consent to the 
appointment. We therefore conclude that the trial court properly granted UMB Bank 
and TMI’s motion for summary judgment on whether they had been properly 
appointed as co-trustees under the Master Indenture. 
 
We overrule Senior Care’s first issue. 
Preston Hollow’s Capacity to Bring Suit 
In its second issue, Senior Care argues that Preston Hollow lacked capacity to 
sue Senior Care for breach of contract because Preston Hollow failed to satisfy the 
condition precedent of providing the required notice to the Master Trustee of its 

36 
 
intent to exercise rights and remedies in lieu of the Master Trustee, as required by 
the Master Indenture.14 
A. 
Preston Hollow’s Provision of Notice to Master Trustee 
“A condition precedent is an event that must happen or be performed before 
a right can accrue to enforce an obligation.” Solar Applications Eng’g, Inc. v. T.A. 
Operating Co., 327 S.W.3d 104, 108 (Tex. 2010). If an express condition is not 
satisfied, then the party whose performance is conditioned is excused from any 
 
14  
Both Bouldin and Senior Care argue—in their second and third issues, 
respectively—that Preston Hollow cannot recover on its breach of contract claim 
because the copy of the Master Indenture admitted at trial indicated that it had been 
amended, but Preston Hollow did not introduce an amended version of the Master 
Indenture into evidence, and therefore Preston Hollow “failed to prove up the 
operative text of the Master Indenture—which is the only document that could 
possibly allow [Preston Hollow] to sue.” We first note that Senior Care’s claims for 
affirmative relief included a claim that Preston Hollow “breached the bond 
documents.” At trial, Senior Care offered the original, unamended Master Indenture 
into evidence during direct examination of Bouldin, and the trial court admitted the 
exhibit. No party argued that this was an inoperable version of the Master Indenture 
or sought to introduce an amended Master Indenture into evidence. 
 
Regardless, Bouldin and Senior Care did not carry their burden on this issue. 
“Parties have the power to modify their contracts.” Hathaway v. Gen. Mills, Inc., 
711 S.W.2d 227, 228 (Tex. 1986). Whether a contract has been modified depends 
on the parties’ intentions and is a question of fact. Id. at 228–29. A modification 
must satisfy the elements of a contract: there must be a meeting of the minds 
supported by consideration. Id. at 228. The party asserting the modification bears 
the burden of proving modification. Id. at 229; Ifiesimama v. Haile, 522 S.W.3d 
675, 685 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2017, pet. denied). Senior Care did not 
attempt to establish in the trial court that the Master Indenture had been amended, 
and it obtained no fact findings on amendments modifying the Master Indenture. 
We conclude that Senior Care and Bouldin may not argue, for the first time on 
appeal, that the version of the Master Indenture that Senior Care introduced into 
evidence is not the operative version of the Master Indenture. We overrule this 
portion of Bouldin’s second issue and Senior Care’s third issue. 

37 
 
obligation to perform. Id.; see State Farm Lloyds v. Hanson, 500 S.W.3d 84, 96 
(Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2016, pet. denied) (“A condition precedent may 
be either a condition to the formation of a contract or a condition to an obligation to 
perform an existing agreement.”). 
To determine whether a condition precedent exists, we must ascertain the 
intention of the parties, which can only be done by looking at the entire contract. 
Solar Applications Eng’g, 327 S.W.3d at 109. To make performance specifically 
conditional, “a term such as ‘if,’ ‘provided that,’ ‘on condition that,’ or some similar 
phrase of conditional language must normally be included.” Id. (quoting Criswell v. 
European Crossroads Shopping Ctr., Ltd., 792 S.W.2d 945, 948 (Tex. 1990)). When 
no conditional language is used and another reasonable interpretation of the contract 
is possible, we construe the terms as a covenant to prevent a forfeiture. Id. 
Under Rule of Civil Procedure 54, if the plaintiff pleads that all conditions 
precedent have been performed, the plaintiff is required to prove only the conditions 
precedent that the defendant has specifically denied. TEX. R. CIV. P. 54; Hanson, 500 
S.W.3d at 96. Here, in its live pleading, Preston Hollow alleged that “[a]ll conditions 
precedent to the causes of action and requests for relief asserted in this pleading have 
occurred, been performed or waived.” Senior Care, in its amended answer, asserted 
that Preston Hollow’s claims were barred by failure of condition precedent because 
Preston Hollow failed to show that it provided written notice to the Master Trustee 

38 
 
that it would exercise the rights in Section 7.20 of the Master Indenture in lieu of the 
Master Trustee. 
Section 7.20 of the Master Indenture is entitled “Actions Taken by Noteholder 
Representative in Lieu of the Master Trustee” and it provides: 
Notwithstanding anything in this Indenture to the contrary, if an Event 
of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Noteholder 
Representative, in its sole discretion as evidenced by written notice 
delivered to the Master Trustee, may (but shall not be required to), (i) in 
lieu of the Master Trustee, exercise such one or more of the rights and 
powers conferred on the Master Trustee by this Article VII or under any 
Supplement; and (ii) in lieu of the Master Trustee, exercise such rights 
and powers granted to Issuer under the Indenture, and such rights of the 
Holders under this Article VII, either by a suit or suits in equity or in 
law for the enforcement of any appropriate equitable or legal remedy 
the Noteholder Representative shall deem most expedient in the 
interests of the Holders. 
 
(Emphasis added.) 
Senior Care acknowledges that on August 29, 2019, Preston Hollow’s counsel 
emailed several people, including Lorna Gleason at UMB Bank, and notified them 
that counsel intended to file an amended complaint in the federal court action against 
Bouldin that added Senior Care as a defendant. The amended complaint was attached 
to the email. The email also noted that the amended filing “includes input from” 
UMB Bank and TMI’s counsel. At trial, Gleason agreed that UMB Bank had been 
informed in writing that Preston Hollow had elected to sue Senior Care before it 
filed suit against Senior Care. 

39 
 
Preston Hollow also provided a “Supplemental Notice Pursuant to Section 
7.20 of the MTI and Section 813 of the Trust Indenture” to UMB Bank and TMI on 
April 23, 2021, approximately two months before trial. In this letter, Preston Hollow 
“restat[ed its] election” to pursue claims against Senior Care and Bouldin. Preston 
Hollow attached to this letter a “Trustee Notice Pursuant to Section 7.20 of the MTI 
and Section 813 of the Trust Indenture” that it had provided to BB&T on May 31, 
2019. In that prior notice, Preston Hollow informed BB&T that it intended to pursue 
remedies in federal court against Bouldin under the Guaranty. In Finding of Fact 
Number 33, the trial court found that “Preston Hollow elected to pursue remedies 
against Senior Care and Bouldin and provided written notice of its election pursuant 
to Section 7.20 of the Master Indenture.”15 
Preston Hollow argues that section 7.20 does not make its “written notice a 
prerequisite to proceeding in lieu of the Trustee”; instead, “[t]he provision merely 
notes that [Preston Hollow’s] election to proceed will be ‘evidenced’ by written 
notice.” We agree with Preston Hollow. Section 7.20 does not contain the hallmarks 
of a condition precedent, even when read in context with the rest of the contract. 
 
15  
In Conclusion of Law Number 70, the trial court concluded that “[t]he notice 
contemplated under Section 7.20 is to the Trustee—not Senior Care—and it is for 
the Trustee’s benefit.” The court further concluded that Preston Hollow’s witnesses 
“testified that written notice was provided by Preston Hollow to the Trustee, 
including in the form of default notices, court pleadings and other documents. In 
any event, the Representative [Preston Hollow] provided written notice of Preston 
Hollow’s election under Section 7.20 of the Master Indenture.” 

40 
 
Section 7.20 contemplates that written notice will constitute contemporaneous or 
after-the-fact proof that an election has taken place. To make Preston Hollow’s 
capacity to sue specifically conditional on written notice, “a term such as ‘if,’ 
‘provided that,’ ‘on condition that,’ or some similar phrase of conditional language 
must normally be included.” See Solar Applications Eng’g, 327 S.W.3d at 109. 
Section 7.20 contains no such language. 
Regardless, the Texas Supreme Court has held that “substantial compliance is 
the appropriate standard when evaluating whether a party complied with a 
contractual notice condition.” James Constr. Grp., LLC v. Westlake Chem. Corp., 
650 S.W.3d 392, 405 (Tex. 2022). However, “substantial compliance with a 
condition precedent requiring written notice may not be achieved without a writing 
in some form.” Id. In the Rule 11 context, courts have held that emails are sufficient 
to meet that rule’s “in writing” requirement. See, e.g., Shamrock Psychiatric Clinic, 
P.A. v. Tex. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., 540 S.W.3d 553, 561 (Tex. 2018) (per 
curiam); Green v. Midland Mortg. Co., 342 S.W.3d 686, 691–92 (Tex. App.—
Houston [14th Dist.] 2011, no pet.). As such, even if section 7.20 were a condition 
precedent, that condition may be satisfied by substantial compliance. See James 
Constr. Grp., 650 S.W.3d at 405; see also Solar Applications Eng’g, 327 S.W.3d at 
108 (“A condition precedent is an event that must happen or be performed before a 
right can accrue to enforce an obligation.”). We conclude that the August 29, 2019 

41 
 
email from Preston Hollow’s counsel complied with Section 7.20’s notice 
requirement. 
B. 
Preston Hollow’s Ability to Sue on Behalf of Junior Bondholders 
Senior Care also argues in its second issue that Preston Hollow, as the 
Noteholder Representative, can only exercise powers that the Master Trustee can 
exercise under Article VII of the Master Indenture, but even the Master Trustee lacks 
the authority to sue to recover sums due under the subordinated Series 2017B 
bonds.16 
In the final judgment, the trial court rendered judgment for Preston Hollow 
for “the amounts due and owing pursuant to the Bonds and Notes made the subject 
of this case” in the amount of $52,597,040.06, which included “outstanding principal 
in the amount of $44,675,000.” In Finding of Fact Number 1, the trial court found 
that Senior Care was the obligor on four classes of bonds, including $9,750,000 in 
subordinate Series 2017B bonds, which the court collectively defined as “the 
Bonds.” In Finding Number 2, the court found that “[t]he aggregate unpaid principal 
amount due in respect of the Bonds is $44,675,000.” In Finding Number 9, the court 
found that “[p]ursuant to the Master Indenture and the Bond Indenture, the 
Representative [Preston Hollow] is granted the authority to exercise certain rights 
 
16  
In his third issue, Bouldin similarly argues that Preston Hollow does not have 
authority to sue him under the Guaranty on behalf of the junior noteholders. 

42 
 
and remedies on behalf of the Trustee and the bondholders, including, without 
limitation, the prosecution of claims and causes of action against the Obligor.” The 
trial court did not make an express finding that Preston Hollow could exercise 
remedies and recover damages on behalf of the subordinate bondholders, but that 
finding is implicit. 
Section 7.03(a) of the Master Indenture provides: 
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Master 
Indenture or otherwise, the right of the Subordinate Obligations 
[defined in the Master Indenture as including “the Subordinate Series 
2017B-1 Note”] to be secured by the lien and security interests created 
by this Master Indenture is subject in all respects to the prior payment 
of the Senior Obligations [defined in the Master Indenture as the Series 
2017A Notes], in each case as the same become due. . . . The Master 
Trustee shall not exercise any remedial action under this Master 
Indenture or otherwise on behalf of the Holders of any Subordinate 
Obligations until such time as all amounts with respect to Senior 
Obligations have been paid in full. 
 
The Bond Indenture contains a similar provision in section 812(a) of that document: 
The Bond Trustee and the Holders of the Series 2017B Bonds hereby 
acknowledge and agree that the Series 2017B Bonds shall in all respects 
and at all times be subject to and subordinate to the Series 2017A 
Bonds, notwithstanding the occurrence of an Event of Default with 
respect to the Series 2017B Bonds, and the rights and remedies of the 
Holders of the Series 2017B Bonds shall be subject to the terms of this 
Article VIII. . . . [T]he Bond Trustee will not exercise any remedial 
action under this Bond Indenture or otherwise on behalf of such Holders 
of the Series 2017B Bonds until such time as all amounts with respect 
to Series 2017A Bonds have been paid in full. 
 
Although the Master Indenture differentiates between “Senior” and 
“Subordinate” Obligations, it also defines “Obligation” as “any promissory note, 

43 
 
guaranty, lease, contractual agreement to pay money or other obligation of the 
Obligor which is authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture and which 
is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.” (Emphasis added.) Section 7.02 of the 
Master Indenture allows the Master Trustee, upon the occurrence of an Event of 
Default, to “declare the principal of all the Obligations to be due and payable 
immediately.” (Emphasis added.) Likewise, under section 802 of the Bond 
Indenture, the Bond Trustee can “declare the entire unpaid principal of and interest 
on the Bonds or any series thereof due and payable.” 
Additionally, section 7.07 of the Master Indenture provides: 
Subject to Section 7.03, the Obligor covenants (subject to any notice 
and grace periods contained herein) that if (i) a default is made in the 
payment of any installment of interest on any Obligation when such 
interest becomes due and payable, or (ii) a default is made in the 
payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Obligation at 
the maturity or due date thereof, the Obligor will, upon demand of the 
Master Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such 
Obligations, the whole amount then due and payable on such 
Obligations for principal, redemption premium, if any, and interest . . . . 
 
Subject to Section 7.03, if the Obligor fail[s] to pay any of the foregoing 
amounts forthwith upon demand, the Master Trustee, in its own name 
and as trustee of an express trust, may (subject in all respects to the 
rights of the Noteholder Representative under Section 7.20) institute a 
judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, 
and may prosecute such  proceeding to judgment or final decree, and 
may enforce the same against the Obligor or any other obligor upon the 
Obligations and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable 
in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Obligor or any 
other obligor upon the Obligations, wherever situated. 
 

44 
 
Reading these contractual provisions together, we conclude that section 7.03 
and section 812 ensure the priority of the senior Series 2017A Notes and Bonds. 
Thus, if this series of Notes and Bonds is still outstanding, the Master Trustee or 
Noteholder Representative cannot first take remedial actions on the subordinate 
Series 2017B Note and Bonds before the senior obligations are fully satisfied. If, 
however, an Event of Default occurs, the Master Trustee or Noteholder 
Representative can accelerate the principal of “all the Obligations,” including the 
subordinate obligations. Nothing in sections 7.03 and 812 provides that, when the 
entire debt has been accelerated, the Master Trustee or Noteholder Representative 
can pursue remedies only on behalf of the senior bondholders and cannot also pursue 
remedies on behalf of the subordinate bondholders in the same proceeding. 
Construing these provisions in this way maintains the priority of the Series 
2017A Notes and Bonds while promoting judicial efficiency by not requiring the 
Master Trustee or Noteholder Representative to pursue two separate proceedings on 
behalf of the different classes of bondholders. We therefore conclude that the trial 
court properly determined that Preston Hollow could maintain suit on the Series 
2017B Note. 
We overrule Senior Care’s second issue. 

45 
 
Enforcement of Guaranty Agreement 
In his first issue, Bouldin argues that Preston Hollow lacks capacity to sue 
him because he made the Guaranty to BB&T as Master Trustee, not to Preston 
Hollow, and Preston Hollow therefore cannot establish that it owns the guaranty 
contract. 
A guaranty agreement creates a secondary obligation in which the guarantor 
promises to be responsible for the debt of another and may be called upon to perform 
if the primary obligor does not fulfill its debt. Wasserberg v. Flooring Servs. of Tex., 
LLC, 376 S.W.3d 202, 205 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2012, no pet.). To 
recover under a guaranty agreement, the party must show proof of: (1) the existence 
and ownership of the guaranty contract; (2) the terms of the underlying contract by 
the holder; (3) the occurrence of the conditions upon which liability is based; and 
(4) the guarantor’s failure or refusal to perform the promise. Chahadeh v. Jacinto 
Med. Grp., P.A., 519 S.W.3d 242, 246 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2017, no 
pet.); Lee v. Martin Marietta Materials Sw., Ltd., 141 S.W.3d 719, 720 (Tex. App.—
San Antonio 2004, no pet.). 
A guarantor may require that the terms of his guaranty be strictly followed 
and that the agreement not be extended beyond its precise terms by construction or 
implication. Wasserberg, 376 S.W.3d at 206; Lee, 141 S.W.3d at 721; see McKnight 
v. Va. Mirror Co., 463 S.W.2d 428, 430 (Tex. 1971); see also Chahadeh, 519 S.W.3d 

46 
 
at 247 (“We strictly construe a guaranty in favor of the guarantor.”). We must 
examine the terms of the guaranty based on the language of the contract. 
Wasserberg, 376 S.W.3d at 206; Lee, 141 S.W.3d at 721; see also Moayedi v. 
Interstate 35/Chisam Rd., L.P., 438 S.W.3d 1, 7 (Tex. 2014) (“If the meaning of a 
guaranty agreement is uncertain, its terms should be given a construction which is 
most favorable to the guarantor.”) (quotations omitted). Our primary goal is to 
ascertain and give effect to the parties’ intent. Chahadeh, 519 S.W.3d at 247. The 
interpretation of a guaranty agreement is a question of law that we review de novo. 
Wasserberg, 376 S.W.3d at 206; Lee, 141 S.W.3d at 720. 
In the final judgment, the trial court ordered that Preston Hollow, as the 
Noteholder Representative and the Series 2017A Majority Representative, “shall be 
granted judgment against Bouldin for ‘Guaranty Obligations’ (Count III), jointly and 
severally with Senior Care, for the amounts due and owing pursuant to the Bonds 
and Notes made the subject of this case.” In Finding of Fact Number 7, the court 
found that Bouldin executed the Guaranty “in favor of the Master Trustee.” In 
Finding Number 30, the court found that “Preston Hollow presented formal demands 
to Bouldin to pay Senior Care’s obligations as required by his Guaranties, but 
Bouldin has not done so.” In Finding Number 31, the court found that “[t]he multiple 
Bond Document defaults and Events of Default by Senior Care are recourse triggers 

47 
 
under the Bouldin Guaranty, making Bouldin jointly and severally liable for all 
amounts owed to the Trustee on behalf of the bondholders.”17 
The opening paragraph of the Guaranty provides that Bouldin, as Guarantor, 
made the Guaranty “to the Guaranteed Parties (as herein defined).” Section 3.01 of 
the Guaranty then states: 
The Guarantor, as surety, absolutely, unconditionally, and irrevocably 
guarantees to the Master Trustee (for the benefit of the Holders) 
(collectively, the ‘Guaranteed Parties’), the full, complete and prompt 
payment of the principal and redemption price, if any, of and interest 
on the Series 2017 Notes when due, whether at stated maturity, by 
optional tender, upon redemption . . . , acceleration or otherwise, 
including any claim or other type of right arising from such principal 
amount such as any deficiency judgment upon foreclosure or claim in 
bankruptcy, and any other sums incurred by Guaranteed Parties in 
enforcing this Guaranty and repayment of the Series 2017 Notes 
(collectively, the ‘Guaranteed Obligations’), upon the occurrence of 
any one of more of the following events of circumstances[.] 
 
(Emphasis added.) 
Under Section 3.01, the term “Guaranteed Parties” is broader than simply the 
Master Trustee; instead, the term also includes “the Holders.” The Guaranty states 
that “the holders of the Series 2017 Notes are referred to herein collectively as the 
 
17  
In Conclusions of Law Numbers 36 and 39, the court concluded that Bouldin 
“guaranteed Senior Care’s obligations pursuant to the Guaranty Agreement” and 
therefore Bouldin was “jointly and severally liable with Senior Care to the Trustee 
and Preston Hollow, individually and [as] Representative for the benefit of all 
bondholders, for all amounts Senior Care owes in respect of the Bonds, including 
principal, accrued interest, attorneys’ fees and costs and the fees and expenses of 
Preston Hollow and the Trustees.” 

48 
 
‘Holders.’” The Guaranty also provides that unless terms are defined in the Guaranty 
itself, the terms “shall have the meanings set forth in the Master Indenture.” Under 
the Master Indenture, a “Holder” is “the registered owner of any Obligation.” 
“Obligation” is defined in the Master Indenture as “any promissory note, guaranty, 
lease, contractual agreement to pay money or other obligation of the Obligor which 
is authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture and which is entitled to the 
benefits of this Indenture. Obligations include Senior Obligations and Subordinate 
Obligations.”18 
 
The Master Indenture gives the “Majority Holders” the right to appoint a 
representative—the Noteholder Representative—to take certain actions under the 
Master Indenture to protect the Majority Holders’ rights.19 “A Noteholder 
Representative may be a Holder.” The Master Indenture named Preston Hollow as 
the initial Noteholder Representative, and the parties do not dispute that Preston 
Hollow remained in this position during all periods relevant to this case. 
 
18  
The Master Indenture defines “Senior Obligations” as “the Series 2017A Notes and 
any other Obligation issued hereunder on a pari passu basis with the Series 2017A 
Notes.” “Subordinate Obligations” are defined as “any Obligation issued hereunder 
on a basis subordinate to the Senior Obligations, including but not limited to the 
Subordinate Series 2017B-1 Note.” 
 
19  
The Master Indenture defines “Majority Holders” as “the Holders of not less than a 
majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Senior Obligations.” 

49 
 
The Notes do not specifically name any of the purchasers of the bonds, but 
they do state that they were issued for the purpose of securing the payment of the 
principal and interest on the bonds. They also include the following provisions: 
Copies of the Master Indenture are on file at the corporate trust office 
of the Master Trustee and reference is hereby made to the Master 
Indenture for the provisions, among others, with respect to the nature 
and extent of the rights of the holder of this Note, the terms and 
conditions on which, and the purposes for which, this Note is issued 
and the rights, duties and obligations of the Obligor and the Master 
Trustee under the Master Indenture, to all of which the holder hereof, 
by acceptance of this Note, assents. 
 
. . . . 
 
The holder of this Note shall have no right to enforce the provisions of 
the Master Indenture, or to institute any action to enforce the covenants 
therein, or to take any action with respect to any default under the 
Master Indenture, or to institute, appear in or defend any suit or other 
proceeding with respect thereto, except as provided in the Master 
Indenture. 
 
This Note shall be registered on the register to be maintained by the 
Master Trustee and this Note shall be transferable only upon said 
register at said office by the registered owner or by his duly authorized 
attorney. . . . 
 
The Obligor, the Master Trustee and any paying agent shall deem and 
treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute 
owner hereof for all purposes; and neither the Obligor, any paying 
agent, the Master Trustee nor any Obligation registrar shall be affected 
by any notice to the contrary. 
 
 
In the Notes, Senior Care promised to pay certain sums to Woodloch. The 
Series 2017A-1 Note includes the following “Assignment to Bond Trustee” signed 
by Woodloch: 

50 
 
Pay to the order of BRANCH BANKING AND TRUST COMPANY, 
as Bond Trustee for the owners of the Series 2017A-1 Bonds 
hereinabove mentioned, without warranty and without recourse against 
the undersigned except warranty of good title, warranty that the Issuer 
has not assigned this Series 2017A-1 Note to a person or entity other 
than the Bond Trustee, and that the original principal amount thereof 
remains unpaid hereunder. 
 
Each of the other Notes contains an identical assignment that references the specific 
series of bonds and the Note to which the assignment applies. The Loan Agreement 
also acknowledged that Senior Care “has executed and delivered to the Bond Trustee 
[BB&T], the Series 2017 Notes (as hereinafter defined) to further secure the 
payment of the Series 2017 Bonds.” 
It is undisputed that Preston Hollow purchased bonds and is also both the 
Noteholder Representative and the Series 2017A Majority Representative. However, 
the record includes no documentary evidence or testimony that Preston Hollow was 
a registered owner of the Notes, such that it qualifies as a “Holder” under the Master 
Indenture. Although the Noteholder Representative “may” be a Holder, it is not 
required to be. Thus, Preston Hollow’s status as the Noteholder Representative, 
standing alone, does not constitute evidence that Preston Hollow was a registered 
owner of the Notes. In the absence of evidence that Preston Hollow was a Holder of 
the Notes, Preston Hollow does not qualify as one of the “Guaranteed Parties” 
entitled to enforce the Guaranty. See Chahadeh, 519 S.W.3d at 246 (stating that to 

51 
 
recover under guaranty agreement, party must establish existence and ownership of 
guaranty contract). 
Preston Hollow argues that even if it cannot sue Bouldin under the terms of 
the Guaranty itself, it has authority to do so as the Noteholder Representative under 
the Master Indenture and as the Series 2017A Majority Representative under the 
Bond Indenture. For support, Preston Hollow relies on sections 7.07 and 7.20 of the 
Master Indenture to argue that, as the Noteholder Representative, it has the authority 
to act in lieu of the Master Trustee to enforce certain obligations, including Bouldin’s 
obligations under the Guaranty. Section 7.07 provides, in relevant part: 
Subject to Section 7.03, if the Obligor [Senior Care] fail[s] to pay any 
of the foregoing amounts forthwith upon demand, the Master Trustee, 
in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may (subject in all 
respects to the rights of the Noteholder Representative under Section 
7.20) institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so 
due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or 
final decree, and may enforce the same against the Obligor or any other 
obligor upon the Obligations and collect the moneys adjudged or 
decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property 
of the Obligor or any other obligor upon the Obligations, wherever 
situated. 
 
Section 7.20 allows the Noteholder Representative, if an Event of Default has 
occurred, to act in lieu of the Master Trustee by “exercis[ing] such one or more of 
the rights and powers conferred on the Master Trustee by this Article VII [of the 
Master Indenture] or under any Supplement” or by “exercis[ing] such rights and 

52 
 
powers granted to Issuer under the Indenture, and such rights of the Holders under 
this Article VII . . . .” 
Additionally, Preston Hollow points to similar provisions in the Bond 
Indenture. Section 803(a) of the Bond Indenture allows “the Bond Trustee (or in lieu 
thereof, pursuant to Section 813, the Series 2017A Majority Representative),” upon 
an Event of Default, to “protect and enforce its rights as the holder of the Series 
2017A Note and the rights of the Holders.” Section 813, like section 7.20 of the 
Master Indenture, allows the Series 2017A Majority Representative, in lieu of the 
Bond Trustee, to exercise “such one or more of the rights and powers conferred on 
the Bond Trustee by this Article VIII or Section 405 hereof” or “such rights and 
powers granted to Issuer under the Bond Indenture, and such rights of the Holders 
under this Article VIII . . . .” Section 405 allows the Bond Trustee to “enforce all of 
the rights of the Issuer . . . and all obligations of the Obligor under and pursuant to 
the Loan Agreement and the Notes for and on behalf of the Holders.” 
We disagree that Preston Hollow’s status as Noteholder Representative and 
Series 2017A Majority Representative grant it authority to enforce the Guaranty 
against Bouldin. The text of the Guaranty itself says nothing about allowing either 
the Noteholder Representative or the Series 2017A Majority Representative to act 
for the Master Trustee in pursuing remedies under the Guaranty. Instead, the 
remedies provision of the Guaranty, section 4.05, states as follows: 

53 
 
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, the Master Trustee may, 
or at the direction of the Noteholder Representative pursuant to Section 
7.02 of the Master Indenture shall: (a) demand immediate payment in 
full of all Guaranteed Obligations; or (b) exercise such rights and 
remedies it may have under this Guaranty or any of the other Bond 
Documents; or (c) exercise with respect to any collateral any one or 
more of the rights and remedies provided a secured party under the 
UCC; or (d) exercise from time to time any other rights and remedies 
available to it at law, in equity or otherwise.20 
 
This section references the Noteholder Representative,21 but it provides only that the 
Noteholder Representative may direct the Master Trustee to take action after an 
Event of Default. Contrary to the sections of the Master Indenture and the Bond 
Indenture allowing the Noteholder Representative and the Series 2017A Majority 
Representative to act “in lieu of” the Master Trustee or Bond Trustee, section 4.05 
of the Guaranty does not allow the Noteholder Representative to step into the shoes 
of the Master Trustee and act in lieu of it. 
 
20  
Section 7.02 of the Master Indenture allows the Master Trustee on its own 
initiative—or at the direction of the Noteholder Representative—to accelerate the 
payment of the principal of the Obligations upon an Event of Default. 
 
21  
In addition to section 4.05, the Noteholder Representative is mentioned four other 
times in the Guaranty. Section 3.01 sets out 12 situations in which Bouldin agreed 
to be liable for Senior Care’s obligations, including if any liens are filed against the 
property “unless such claims or liens have been filed due to a default by the 
Noteholder Representative in approving disbursements requests” or if Senior Care 
or Bouldin closes the project or allows a change in the operator of the facility 
without the Noteholder Representative’s prior consent. Section 3.06 grants the 
Noteholder Representative the ability to direct Bouldin “to secure the Guaranteed 
Obligations with certain collateral” if Bouldin becomes liable for payment under the 
Guaranty. Finally, section 4.07 provides that either the Master Trustee or the 
Noteholder Representative can waive “breach of any agreement contained in this 
Guaranty,” but that waiver is limited to “the particular breach so expressly waived.” 

54 
 
 
In drafting the Guaranty, Bouldin and BB&T expressly referred to the Master 
Indenture several times, including by providing that terms not defined in the 
Guaranty itself “shall have the meanings set forth in the Master Indenture” and by 
specifically referring to section 7.02 in the remedies provision of the Guaranty. No 
such references to sections 7.07 or 7.20—or to sections 803 or 813 of the Bond 
Indenture—exist in the Guaranty. Bouldin and BB&T could have drafted the 
Guaranty in such a way to mirror the Master Indenture and Bond Indenture and 
allow, upon an Event of Default, the Noteholder Representative or Series 2017A 
Majority Representative to pursue remedies on behalf of the Guaranteed Parties and 
enforce the Guaranty against Bouldin. However, they did not. 
 
Longstanding Texas caselaw provides that “a guarantor may require that the 
terms of his guaranty be strictly followed” and that the guaranty “may not be 
extended beyond its precise terms by construction or implication.” Reece v. First 
State Bank of Denton, 566 S.W.2d 296, 297 (Tex. 1978); Fed. Deposit Ins. Corp. v. 
Attayi, 745 S.W.2d 939, 943 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 1988, no writ); 
Wasserberg, 376 S.W.3d at 206; see also Chahadeh, 519 S.W.3d at 247 (“We 
strictly construe a guaranty in favor of the guarantor.”). We therefore decline to look 
to the language of two contracts to which Bouldin is not a party in his individual 
capacity—the Master Indenture and the Bond Indenture—to provide that Preston 
Hollow as the Noteholder Representative and the Series 2017A Majority 

55 
 
Representative can enforce the Guaranty against Bouldin when the language of the 
Guaranty itself does not grant the Noteholder Representative or the Series 2017A 
Majority Representative this power. See Reece, 566 S.W.2d at 297 (“We agree that 
a guarantor may require that the terms of his guaranty be strictly followed and that 
he is not bound by a new or different contract.”). 
 
We sustain Bouldin’s first issue. 
Acceleration of the Debt 
In Senior Care’s fourth issue and in Bouldin’s third issue, both appellants 
argue that the evidence presented at trial does not support the damages awarded by 
the trial court. Although Senior Care and Bouldin raise some distinct arguments in 
these issues, both argue that Preston Hollow did not prove that the debt was properly 
accelerated. 
A. 
Standard of Review 
In a bench trial, the trial court’s findings of fact have the same weight as a 
jury’s verdict, and on appeal, we review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting 
those findings by using the same standards for reviewing jury verdicts. Hall v. Lewis, 
639 S.W.3d 197, 204–05 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2021, no pet.); see Tex. 
Outfitters Ltd., LLC v. Nicholson, 572 S.W.3d 647, 653 (Tex. 2019). When 
challenged, the court’s findings of fact are not conclusive if, as here, there is a 
complete reporter’s record on appeal. Hall, 639 S.W.3d at 205; Choice! Power, L.P. 

56 
 
v. Feeley, 501 S.W.3d 199, 208 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2016, no pet.) 
(citing BMC Software Belg., N.V. v. Marchand, 83 S.W.3d 789, 795 (Tex. 2002)). 
We defer to unchallenged findings of fact that are supported by some evidence. 
Tenaska Energy, Inc. v. Ponderosa Pine Energy, LLC, 437 S.W.3d 518, 523 (Tex. 
2014). 
When reviewing the legal sufficiency of the evidence, we consider whether 
the evidence presented at trial would enable reasonable and fair-minded people to 
reach the verdict under review. Wood v. Wiggins, 650 S.W.3d 533, 544 (Tex. App.—
Houston [1st Dist.] 2021, pet. denied); see City of Keller v. Wilson, 168 S.W.3d 802, 
827 (Tex. 2005). We credit favorable evidence if a reasonable factfinder could and 
disregard contrary evidence unless a reasonable factfinder could not. Wood, 650 
S.W.3d at 544. We consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the 
challenged finding, indulging every reasonable inference that supports the finding. 
Hall, 639 S.W.3d at 205. We may not disregard evidence that allows only one 
inference. Puntarelli v. Peterson, 405 S.W.3d 131, 135 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st 
Dist.] 2013, no pet.). If the evidence falls within the zone of reasonable 
disagreement, we may not substitute our judgment for that of the factfinder. Wood, 
650 S.W.3d at 544. The factfinder is the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses 
and the weight to give to their testimony. Hall, 639 S.W.3d at 205; Puntarelli, 405 
S.W.3d at 135. 

57 
 
When we review the factual sufficiency of the evidence, we consider all the 
evidence supporting and contradicting the challenged finding. Wood, 650 S.W.3d at 
544; Puntarelli, 405 S.W.3d at 135. We will set aside the finding only if it is so 
contrary to the overwhelming weight of the evidence as to be clearly wrong and 
unjust. Hall, 639 S.W.3d at 205; Puntarelli, 405 S.W.3d at 135. 
We review a trial court’s conclusions of law de novo. BMC Software, 83 
S.W.3d at 794; Wood, 650 S.W.3d at 544. We will uphold conclusions of law if the 
judgment can be sustained on any legal theory supported by the evidence. Wood, 
650 S.W.3d at 544; Ferrara v. Nutt, 555 S.W.3d 227, 235–36 (Tex. App.—Houston 
[1st Dist.] 2018, no pet.). Incorrect conclusions of law do not require reversal if the 
controlling fact findings support the judgment under a correct legal theory. Ferrara, 
555 S.W.3d at 236; see Wood, 650 S.W.3d at 544 (stating that erroneous conclusion 
of law does not require reversal if trial court rendered proper judgment). 
B. 
Preservation of Error 
 
Preston Hollow argues that Senior Care and Bouldin cannot challenge Preston 
Hollow’s alleged failure to prove that the debt was properly accelerated because 
Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI pleaded that all conditions precedent to suit 
had been performed, but Senior Care and Bouldin did not specifically challenge the 
failure to provide notice of intent to accelerate. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 54; Hanson, 500 
S.W.3d at 96 (stating that if plaintiff pleads that all conditions precedent have been 

58 
 
performed, plaintiff is required to prove only conditions precedent that defendant 
specifically denied). 
 
Senior Care and Bouldin, however, both argue that they may permissibly raise 
this issue because the trial court made express fact findings on whether the debt had 
been properly accelerated, and parties may challenge the sufficiency of the evidence 
supporting fact findings made after a bench trial for the first time on appeal. 
 
The trial court admitted evidence of the notices of default, of intent to 
accelerate the debt, and of acceleration. In Finding of Fact Number 18, the trial court 
found: “Preston Hollow did not breach the Bond Documents. Senior Care defaulted 
on its obligations under the Bond Documents. The Trustee gave a notice of the 
defaults. The defaults were not timely cured. Senior Care’s indebtedness under the 
Bond Documents was properly accelerated on May 31, 2019.” Additionally, in 
Finding Number 29, the court found that “[o]n May 31, 2019, BBT the predecessor 
Trustee, properly accelerated all amounts due and owing with respect to the Bonds 
and provided Senior Care and Bouldin with notice of such acceleration.” 
 
Following a bench trial, a party may make “a complaint regarding the legal or 
factual insufficiency of the evidence—including a complaint that the damages found 
by the court are excessive or inadequate” for the first time on appeal. TEX. R. APP. 
P. 33.1(d); see Savoy v. Nat’l Collegiate Student Loan Tr. 2005-3, 557 S.W.3d 825, 
839 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2018, no pet.) (concluding, when record 

59 
 
contained no evidence that creditor provided debtors with either notice of intent to 
accelerate debt or notice of acceleration, that evidence was legally and factually 
insufficient to support full amount of damages awarded). Because evidence of 
acceleration was admitted at the bench trial and the trial court made express fact 
findings that the debt was properly accelerated, we conclude that Senior Care and 
Bouldin can raise this sufficiency challenge on appeal. 
C. 
Whether the Debt Was Properly Accelerated 
To prevail on a claim for breach of contract, the plaintiff must establish (1) the 
existence of a valid contract; (2) the plaintiff performed or tendered performance as 
contractually required; (3) the defendant breached the contract by failing to perform 
or tender performance as contractually required; and (4) the plaintiff sustained 
damages as a result of the breach. Pathfinder Oil & Gas, Inc. v. Great W. Drilling, 
Ltd., 574 S.W.3d 882, 890 (Tex. 2019); Fortitude Energy, LLC v. Sooner Pipe LLC, 
564 S.W.3d 167, 180 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2018, no pet.). 
A promissory note is a contract evincing an obligation to pay money. Jim 
Maddox Props., LLC v. WEM Equity Cap. Invs., Ltd., 446 S.W.3d 126, 132 (Tex. 
App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2014, no pet.). To recover on a promissory note, the 
plaintiff must prove (1) the note in question; (2) the defendant signed the note; (3) the 
plaintiff is the owner or holder of the note; and (4) a certain balance is due and owing 
on the note. Dorsett v. Hisp. Hous. & Educ. Corp., 389 S.W.3d 609, 613 (Tex. 

60 
 
App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2012, no pet.) (quoting Geiselman v. Cramer Fin. Grp., 
Inc., 965 S.W.2d 532, 536 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 1997, no writ)). 
“Where the holder of a promissory note has the option to accelerate maturity 
of the note upon the maker’s default, equity demands notice be given of the intent to 
exercise the option.” Ogden v. Gibraltar Sav. Ass’n, 640 S.W.2d 232, 233 (Tex. 
1982); Savoy, 557 S.W.3d at 839. Because a promissory note is “initially 
contemplated to extend over a period of months or years,” the accelerated maturity 
of a note “is an extremely harsh remedy.” Savoy, 557 S.W.3d at 839 (quoting Allen 
Sales & Servicenter, Inc. v. Ryan, 525 S.W.2d 863, 866 (Tex. 1975)). 
A creditor must give the debtor an opportunity to pay the past due installments 
before accelerating the entire indebtedness; thus, the creditor must make a demand 
for payment of past due amounts before exercising the option to accelerate. Id. 
(quoting Williamson v. Dunlap, 693 S.W.2d 373, 374 (Tex. 1985) (per curiam)); see 
Ogden, 640 S.W.2d at 234 (“Notice of intent to accelerate is necessary in order to 
provide the debtor an opportunity to cure his default prior to harsh consequences of 
acceleration and foreclosure.”). For acceleration to be effective, the holder of the 
note must notify the maker of both its intent to accelerate and of the acceleration. 
Savoy, 557 S.W.3d at 839; see Holy Cross Church of God in Christ v. Wolf, 44 
S.W.3d 562, 566 (Tex. 2001); Ogden, 640 S.W.2d at 233–34. If, after notice of intent 
to accelerate, the debtor fails to remedy the breach, then the creditor is authorized to 

61 
 
accelerate maturity. Ogden, 640 S.W.2d at 233; Karam v. Brown, 407 S.W.3d 464, 
469–70 (Tex. App.—El Paso 2013, no pet.) (“If the default has not been cured by 
the deadline established in the notice, the lender must then give notice of 
acceleration.”). 
 
Notice that the debt has been accelerated is ineffective unless preceded by 
proper notice of intent to accelerate. Ogden, 640 S.W.2d at 234. In Ogden, the holder 
of the promissory note and deed of trust lien provided the following notice after 
Ogden’s default on the debt: 
(1) You have breached the covenant to pay sums due under your 
promissory note. 
 
(2) To cure such breach you must pay to Gibraltar $1,315.08 no later 
than September 16, 1978. A late charge of $3.68 will be due after 
August 16, 1978. In addition, beginning September 1, 1978, the 
September regular monthly payment will also be due. 
 
(3) Your failure to cure such breach on or before said date may result 
in acceleration of the sums secured by the Deed of Trust and sale of the 
property standing as security thereunder. 
 
Further, you are notified of your right to reinstate after acceleration and 
the right to bring a court action to assert the nonexistence of a default 
or any other defense you may have to acceleration and sale. 
 
Id. at 233. The Texas Supreme Court held that this letter was insufficient to provide 
notice that the creditor intended to exercise its option to accelerate the debt. Id. at 
234. The deed of trust gave the creditor the option to accelerate the note upon default, 
but it was not required to do so, and the letter “gave no clear and unequivocal notice 
that [the creditor] would exercise the option.” Id. Instead, the letter “merely restated 

62 
 
the option conferred in the deed of trust.” Id. Because the creditor did not give proper 
notice of its intent to accelerate the debt, the attempted acceleration was ineffective. 
Id. 
 
Since Ogden, Texas appellate courts have reaffirmed that a notice of intent to 
accelerate must “clearly inform the [debtor] of each event that is considered by the 
[creditor] to be a default.” Schuhardt Consulting Profit Sharing Plan v. Double 
Knobs Mountain Ranch, Inc., 468 S.W.3d 557, 571 (Tex. App.—San Antonio 2014, 
pet. denied). If the creditor intends to accelerate maturity of the debt, the notice must 
“unequivocally” inform the debtor of the creditor’s intention. Id.; see Shumway v. 
Horizon Credit Corp., 801 S.W.2d 890, 893 (Tex. 1991) (requiring notice of intent 
to accelerate to be “clear and unequivocal” to be effective). Courts generally 
construe unclear or equivocal language in a manner to avoid acceleration. Schuhardt 
Consulting Profit Sharing Plan, 468 S.W.3d at 571; see Burns v. Stanton, 286 
S.W.3d 657, 661 (Tex. App.—Texarkana 2009, pet. denied) (stating that because 
acceleration of debt “is viewed as a harsh remedy,” courts will strictly construe 
acceleration clauses in instruments). 
 
Senior Care and Bouldin argue that the language in BB&T and Preston 
Hollow’s notices, like the notice of intent to accelerate in Ogden, was not a clear and 
unequivocal notice of intent to accelerate. On March 25, 2019, BB&T gave Senior 
Care and Bouldin a “Notice of Covenant Breaches and Events of Default and 

63 
 
Demand Letter with Respect to the [four series of bonds that had been issued].” After 
identifying the relevant governing documents, BB&T—at Preston Hollow’s 
direction—notified Senior Care and Bouldin of five “conditions” that currently 
existed with “respect to the Project and the indebtedness under the above-referenced 
Bonds and loan documents”: two conditions that related to Baxter’s lien and claim 
for payment, and three conditions that related to the unpaid ad valorem taxes 
assessed by various Fort Bend County taxing authorities. 
The notice stated that failure to resolve each condition within 30 days “will 
constitute an Event of Default” under the Master Indenture, Bond Indenture, Loan 
Agreement, and the Deed of Trust. BB&T demanded that Senior Care and Bouldin 
take several actions, including that: (1) Senior Care remit $852,777.11 to BB&T, 
representing the “difference between the amount of the [Baxter claim] and the 
amount of funds currently on deposit in the Project Fund”; (2) Bouldin fully pay and 
discharge all claims for labor, materials, and services for the Project pursuant to the 
Completion Guaranty; (3) Senior Care take all actions and pay any funds necessary 
to release or otherwise extinguish Baxter’s lien on the property; (4) Bouldin release 
and discharge all construction and equitable liens pursuant to the Completion 
Guaranty; and (5) remit the amount of unpaid taxes to the Fort Bend County taxing 
authorities. 

64 
 
 
On April 8, 2019, BB&T gave Senior Care and Bouldin a “Supplemental 
Notice of Breaches and Events of Default and Notice of Intent to Accelerate.” This 
notice stated: 
Enclosed, as Exhibit A, is our letter dated March 25, 2019. We 
supplement our March 25 letter to provide the following information 
and to provide notice of intent to accelerate. 
 
In the event you should fail to timely pay or otherwise cure the 
“Conditions” outlined in Section 1 of the March 25 letter, the Trustee 
and/or Series 2017A Majority Representative shall declare an Event of 
Default under each of the related Bond Documents and accelerate 
(subject to further election and notice to you) and declare immediately 
due and payable all amounts due and owing pursuant to the [Master 
Indenture], the Loan Agreement, the Bonds, the Obligations and the 
related Bond Documents. Your payment or cure should be made or 
accomplished no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of 
this Supplemental Notice. 
 
The introductory paragraph of the March 25 letter is hereby restated in 
its entirety to read as set forth in the introductory paragraph of this 
Supplemental Notice. 
 
Each of the Trustee and the Holders of the Series 2017A Bonds 
expressly reserves the right, at any time, to exercise any rights, powers, 
or remedies available to it or them under the Bond Documents. Please 
be further advised that this notice and demand letter does not 
(i) constitute an agreement by the Trustee or the Holders of the Series 
2017A Bonds to enter into any amendment, waiver, or other 
modification of the Bond Documents, (ii) waive any default or Event 
of Default, (iii) establish a course of dealing, or (iv) waive, limit, 
condition, or prejudice any of the Trustee’s or the Holders’ of the Series 
2017A Bonds rights or remedies under the Bond Documents or 
applicable law, all of which rights and remedies are expressly reserved. 
 
(Emphasis added.) 

65 
 
In a May 31, 2019 notice entitled “Notice of Events of Default under the Bond 
Documents and Acceleration of Maturity of Notes and Bonds,” BB&T stated that 
Senior Care had failed to cure the conditions outlined in the March 25 letter and 
April 8 notice, and it declared that an Event of Default had occurred under the Bond 
Indenture, Master Indenture, and Loan Agreement. BB&T stated, in bold: 
As directed by the Noteholder Representative and Series 2017A 
Majority Representative and in accordance with Section 7.02 of the 
[Master Indenture], Section 802 of the [Bond Indenture] and Section 
602(e) of the Loan Agreement, the Trustee hereby declares the 
Acceleration of the Notes and the Acceleration of the Bonds. 
Accordingly, (i) the entire unpaid principal of and interest on the Bonds 
has forthwith and immediately become due and payable, subject to 
Section 812 of the [Bond Indenture] and (ii) the principal of all the 
Notes has become immediately due and payable in full. 
 
BB&T directed this notice to the holders of the bonds, posted the notice on the 
Electronic Municipal Market Access (“EMMA”) website,22 and provided the notice 
to Bouldin and Senior Care. 
 
We agree with Senior Care and Bouldin that the language of BB&T’s April 8 
notice was not unequivocal. As Bouldin points out, the Master Indenture gives the 
Master Trustee the option to accelerate payment of the amounts owed by Senior Care 
 
22  
The EMMA website is maintained by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, 
and it provides extensive information about bond projects to the public. In the 
summary judgment proceedings, UMB Bank and TMI included a printout of the 
information relevant to this project that had been posted on EMMA. This 
information included Senior Care’s financial statements and balance sheets, 
monthly reports, notices of default, BB&T’s notice of resignation, the notice of the 
co-trustee appointments, and notice of the foreclosure sale. 

66 
 
upon the occurrence of an Event of Default. By including the parenthetical “(subject 
to further election and notice to you)” in the April 8 notice, BB&T failed to 
unequivocally indicate that Senior Care’s failure to cure the alleged defaults would 
automatically result in acceleration. Instead, the notice suggests that an additional 
election and notice would need to be made in the future. 
 
Due to the harsh consequences of acceleration, we “generally construe unclear 
or equivocal language in a manner to avoid acceleration.” Schuhardt Consulting 
Profit Sharing Plan, 468 S.W.3d at 571; Mastin v. Mastin, 70 S.W.3d 148, 154 (Tex. 
App.—San Antonio 2001, no pet.) (“Acceleration is a harsh remedy with draconian 
consequences for the debtor and Texas courts look with disfavor upon the exercise 
of this power because great inequity may result.”). The April 8 notice, like the notice 
at issue in Ogden, did not give “clear and unequivocal notice” to Senior Care that if 
it failed to cure the alleged defaults, BB&T “would exercise the option” to accelerate 
the debt automatically. See 640 S.W.2d at 234. Thus, BB&T’s May 31 notice of 
acceleration was ineffective because it was not “preceded by proper notice of intent 
to accelerate.” See id. We hold that the trial court’s Finding Number 18 and Finding 
Number 29 were not supported by legally or factually sufficient evidence. 
 
When acceleration is invalid, the plaintiff is entitled to judgment against the 
defendant only for past due installments plus accumulated interest as provided in the 
note. Savoy, 557 S.W.3d at 840 (quoting Williamson, 693 S.W.2d at 374). Here, 

67 
 
although Senior Care contests the trial court’s findings of breach with respect to 
certain Events of Default, Senior Care has not contested several portions of Finding 
of Fact Number 19, addressing individual breaches of the Master Indenture, 
including: 
• 
“Failure by Senior Care to duly and punctually pay interest on the 
Obligations in accordance with the terms of the Obligations and the 
Master Indenture, as required by Section 4.04 of the Master Indenture”; 
 
• 
“Failure by Senior Care to cause all Gross Revenues to be transferred 
from the Blocked Accounts to the Revenue Fund promptly as required 
by Section 3.01(d) of the Master Indenture”; 
 
• 
“Senior Care[’s] impermissible transfers [of cash] to an Affiliate, in 
violation of Section 2.3.5 of Schedule 4.26 (labelled therein as 
“Schedule 6”) to the Master Indenture”; and 
 
• 
“Failure by Senior Care to deposit amounts into the Insurance and Tax 
Escrow Fund sufficient to pay in a timely manner all required tax 
payments, as required by Section 3.05 of the Master Indenture.” 
 
Although we may suggest a remittitur when there is insufficient evidence to 
support the full accelerated amount of damages awarded but sufficient evidence to 
support a lesser award, see id. (citing Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, L.L.P. v. 
Nat’l Dev. & Rsch. Corp., 299 S.W.3d 106, 124 (Tex. 2009), and TEX. R. APP. P. 
46.3), here no party has suggested an amount for a remittitur, Senior Care has not 
challenged all breaches found by the trial court, and the trial court made no findings 
that would identify an appropriate lesser amount of damages. Under these 

68 
 
circumstances, we reverse the award of damages in favor of Preston Hollow and 
remand for a new trial on Preston Hollow’s breach of contract claim.23 
 
We sustain Senior Care’s fourth issue in part and Bouldin’s third issue in part. 
Dismissal of Claims Under Rule 166 
In its sixth issue, Senior Care argues that the trial court erred by dismissing its 
claims for conversion and money had and received via a Rule 166 pretrial-
management order. 
Rule of Civil Procedure 166 provides that the trial court “may in its discretion” 
direct the parties to appear before it for a pretrial conference to consider, among 
other things, “[t]he identification of legal matters to be ruled on or decided by the 
court.” TEX. R. CIV. P. 166(g). The court “shall make an order that recites the action 
taken at the pretrial conference . . . and which limits the issues for trial to those not 
disposed of by admissions, agreements of counsel, or rulings of the court.” TEX. R. 
CIV. P. 166. The purpose of this conference is to “assist in the disposition of the case 
without undue expense or burden to the parties.” Id. 
 
23  
Because we are remanding for a new trial on Preston Hollow’s breach of contract 
claim, we need not address Senior Care’s third issue, the remainder of Senior Care’s 
fourth issue, and the remainder of Bouldin’s third issue, all of which concern either 
their liability under the Notes or the amount of the damages award. See TEX. R. APP. 
P. 44.1(b) (providing that if reversible error affects part, but not all, of matter in 
controversy, appellate court must reverse judgment and order new trial “only as to 
the part affected by the error,” but appellate court “may not order a separate trial 
solely on unliquidated damages if liability is contested”). 

69 
 
Rule 166(g) thus “authorizes trial courts to decide matters that, though 
ordinarily fact questions, have become questions of law because ‘reasonable minds 
cannot differ on the outcome.’” JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. v. Orca Assets G.P., 
L.L.C., 546 S.W.3d 648, 653 (Tex. 2018) (quoting Walden v. Affiliated Comput. 
Servs., Inc., 97 S.W.3d 303, 322 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2003, pet. 
denied)). When a Rule 166(g) order disposes of claims in this fashion, the order is 
akin to a summary judgment order, and we review the order de novo. Id. If the non-
movant has raised a fact issue on the claim, dismissal under Rule 166(g) is not 
proper. See McCreight v. City of Cleburne, 940 S.W.2d 285, 288 (Tex. App.—Waco 
1997, writ denied); see also King Ranch, Inc. v. Chapman, 118 S.W.3d 742, 751 
(Tex. 2003) (stating that more than scintilla of evidence exists to raise fact issue 
when evidence “rises to a level that would enable reasonable and fair-minded people 
to differ in their conclusions”). 
 
Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI moved for dismissal of Senior Care’s 
claims for conversion and money had and received under Rule 166(g), contending 
that no fact issue existed on the claims and the trial court could dispose of the claims 
as a matter of law. Specifically, Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI argued that 
the claims could be dismissed as a matter of law because (1) UMB Bank and TMI 
were properly appointed as co-successor Bond Trustees under the Bond Indenture 
and therefore could exercise control over funds held by the trustee; (2) the Bond 

70 
 
Indenture provided that the funds were held in trust for the benefit of the 
bondholders, and therefore the funds did not belong to Senior Care; (3) Preston 
Hollow was expressly entitled to approve or disapprove of disbursement requests for 
funds held by the trustee; and (4) the claims were barred by the economic loss rule. 
Conversion is the unauthorized and unlawful assumption and exercise of 
dominion and control over the personal property of another to the exclusion of, or 
inconsistent with, the owner’s rights. Cypress Creek EMS v. Dolcefino, 548 S.W.3d 
673, 684 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2018, pet. denied). The elements of a 
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff owned or had possession of the property or 
entitlement to possession; (2) the defendant unlawfully and without authorization 
assumed and exercised control over the property to the exclusion of, or inconsistent 
with, the plaintiff’s rights as an owner; (3) the plaintiff demanded return of the 
property; and (4) the defendant refused to return the property. Id. The plaintiff must 
also prove damages that are the proximate result of the defendant’s conversion. Id. 
at 685. 
Money had and received is an equitable cause of action that “belongs 
conceptually to the doctrine of unjust enrichment.” Ferrara, 555 S.W.3d at 244 
(quoting Edwards v. Mid-Continent Off. Distribs., L.P., 252 S.W.3d 833, 837 (Tex. 
App.—Dallas 2008, pet. denied)). “This cause of action is not premised on 
wrongdoing, but instead seeks to restore money where equity and good conscience 

71 
 
require restitution.” Id. (quotations omitted); Nivens v. City of League City, 245 
S.W.3d 470, 474 n.2 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2007, pet. denied). To be 
entitled to relief, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant “holds money 
which in equity and good conscience belongs to him.” Ferrara, 555 S.W.3d at 244 
(quotations omitted). 
Senior Care’s claims for conversion and money had and received have an 
element in common: they both require Senior Care to prove that the money that has 
been converted or held belongs to it. Senior Care, however, cannot do so. The 
“Granting Clauses” of the Master Indenture provide that, to secure the payment of 
the outstanding obligations, Senior Care as the Obligor “does hereby grant, bargain, 
sell, alienate, remise, release, convey, assign, transfer, mortgage, hypothecate, 
pledge, set over, and confirm to the Master Trustee” several described properties 
including: (1) all revenue, accounts, accounts receivable, and gross revenues; (2) the 
real property with improvements; and (3) “[a]ny amounts on deposit from time to 
time in any fund or account created hereunder, subject to the provisions of this 
Indenture permitting the application thereof for the purposes and on the terms and 
conditions set forth herein.” Senior Care granted this property—known under the 
Master Indenture as “the Trust Estate”—to BB&T as Master Trustee “TO HAVE 

72 
 
AND TO HOLD, IN TRUST, WITH THE POWER OF SALE . . . .”24 The Master 
Indenture later states that “Trust Estate” “has the meaning given to such term in the 
Granting Clauses hereof.” Senior Care also agreed that “as security for repayment 
of the Obligations, all deposit accounts of the Obligor shall at all times be controlled 
by the Master Trustee.” 
Because Senior Care has not established in the trial court or on appeal that 
(1) it owned or had possession of the funds or entitlement to possession, or (2) the 
defendants held money that belonged to Senior Care, it did not raise a fact issue on 
its claims for conversion and money had and received. See Cypress Creek EMS, 548 
S.W.3d at 684 (stating elements of conversion); Ferrara, 555 S.W.3d at 244 (stating 
elements of money had and received). Thus, because Senior Care did not raise a fact 
issue on an essential element of these claims, the trial court properly dismissed the 
claims for conversion and money had and received via a Rule 166(g) pretrial 
management order. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 166(g); JPMorgan Chase Bank, 546 S.W.3d 
 
24  
The Bond Indenture likewise provides that the Bond Trustee holds the bond 
proceeds in trust for the bondholders. Section 501 states: “All money deposited with 
or paid to the Bond Trustee for the funds and accounts held under this Bond 
Indenture shall be held by the Bond Trustee in trust and shall be applied only in 
accordance with the provisions of this Bond Indenture, and, until used or applied as 
herein provided, shall constitute part of the Trust Estate and be subject to the lien, 
terms and provisions hereof . . . .” Section 516 states: “All moneys required to be 
deposited with or paid to the Bond Trustee for the account of any of the funds or 
accounts created by this Bond Indenture shall be held by the Bond Trustee in 
trust . . . .” Both the Bond Indenture and the Master Indenture set out detailed 
requirements for specific deposit accounts and uses for the bond proceeds. 

73 
 
at 653 (stating that Rule 166(g) “authorizes trial courts to decide matters that, though 
ordinarily fact questions, have become questions of law because reasonable minds 
cannot differ on the outcome”) (quotations omitted). 
We overrule Senior Care’s sixth issue. 
Attorney’s Fees 
Finally, in his fifth issue, Bouldin argues that the trial court erred by ordering 
him (jointly and severally with Senior Care) to pay the attorney’s fees of Preston 
Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI. In his fourth issue, Bouldin argues that neither UMB 
Bank nor TMI can recover on the claims that they “conditionally asserted” against 
him because the trial court rendered judgment solely in favor of Preston Hollow and 
denied all other claims. We address these issues together. 
In the final judgment, the trial court awarded Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, 
and TMI “judgment against each of Senior Care and Bouldin, jointly and severally, 
in the amount of $250,000 for unpaid attorneys’ fees and litigation expenses through 
proceedings in this Court.” The court also ordered Bouldin and Senior Care, jointly 
and severally, to pay $520,000 in conditional appellate attorney’s fees. 
In its findings of fact and conclusions of law, the trial court identified several 
provisions of the Master Indenture, the Bond Indenture, and the Loan Agreement 
that allowed the Master Trustee, the Bond Trustee, the Noteholder Representative, 
and the Series 2017A Majority Representative to recover reasonable expenses and 

74 
 
attorney’s fees from Senior Care. The court concluded that Bouldin is liable for 
attorney’s fees and expenses under two provisions of the Guaranty, including the 
provision making him liable for all amounts for which Senior Care is liable. The 
court further concluded that Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI are entitled to 
their reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses under both the Declaratory Judgments 
Act (“DJA”) and Civil Practice and Remedies Code Chapter 38 because “Senior 
Care and Bouldin have breached their contractual obligations to pay the amounts 
owed.” The trial court did not award a specific amount of attorney’s fees for recovery 
under the DJA or for recovery on the breach of contract claim. 
In addition to guaranteeing to the “Guaranteed Parties” the “full, complete and 
prompt payment of the principal and redemption price, if any, of and interest on the 
Series 2017 Notes when due,” Bouldin also guaranteed payment of “any other sums 
incurred by Guaranteed Parties in enforcing this Guaranty and repayment of the 
Series 2017 Notes” upon the occurrence of certain specified events. Bouldin also 
agreed: “To the extent that the Guaranteed Parties incur any costs or expenses in 
protecting or enforcing its rights under this Guaranty, including reasonable 
attorneys’ fees and the costs and expenses of litigation, such costs and expenses will 
be due on demand, [and] will be included in the Guaranteed Obligations.” The 
Guaranty—and the Completion Guaranty, which did not form part of the basis for 

75 
 
the trial court’s attorney’s fees award—is the only document that Bouldin signed in 
his individual capacity. 
We have already concluded that Preston Hollow is not a “Guaranteed Party” 
under the Guaranty, and it may not enforce the Guaranty. Therefore, the Guaranty 
cannot be used to justify requiring Bouldin to pay Preston Hollow’s attorney’s fees 
and expenses. 
Additionally, as Bouldin argues in his fourth issue, UMB Bank and TMI 
“conditionally asserted” the same causes of action asserted by Preston Hollow—
including a claim that Bouldin is liable under the Guaranty—in the event the court 
determined that Preston Hollow’s authority to bring suit was limited. In the final 
judgment, however, the trial court awarded damages against Bouldin under the 
Guaranty only to Preston Hollow. The condition to trigger assertion of UMB Bank 
and TMI’s claims—the trial court’s determination that Preston Hollow lacked 
authority to sue Senior Care—therefore never occurred. Aside from incorporating 
its earlier summary judgment ruling that UMB Bank and TMI were properly 
appointed as co-successor Master Trustee and Bond Trustee and awarding attorney’s 
fees and expenses, the court did not award relief to UMB Bank or TMI in the final 
judgment. In the final paragraph of the judgment, the trial court ordered that “all 
other claims and causes of action are denied.” 

76 
 
“A party who seeks to alter the trial court’s judgment or other appealable order 
must file a notice of appeal.” TEX. R. APP. P. 25.1(c). We “may not grant a party who 
does not file a notice of appeal more favorable relief than did the trial court except 
for just cause.” Id. Neither UMB Bank nor TMI filed a notice of appeal from the 
trial court’s judgment. We therefore cannot grant them greater relief than the trial 
court granted them. The trial court did not grant UMB Bank or TMI judgment on 
their conditional claims against Bouldin and instead expressly denied “all other 
claims and causes of action.” In the absence of a notice of appeal from UMB Bank 
or TMI seeking to alter this portion of the trial court’s judgment, we may not grant 
them relief on their conditional claims against Bouldin.25 
Without a judgment in their favor that Bouldin is liable to them under the 
Guaranty, at this point, UMB Bank and TMI cannot recover attorney’s fees against 
 
25  
We agree with Bouldin that this is not a situation in which a party prevailed in the 
trial court and had a judgment in its favor reversed on appeal, entitling the party to 
elect a lesser remedy under an alternative theory of recovery. See Boyce Iron Works, 
Inc. v. Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 747 S.W.2d 785, 787 (Tex. 1988) (“When the jury returns 
favorable findings on two or more alternative theories, the prevailing party need not 
formally waive the alternative findings. That party may seek recovery under an 
alternative theory if the judgment is reversed on appeal.”). Aside from the trial 
court’s declaratory judgment on the issue of appointment as successor Master 
Trustee and Bond Trustee and the court’s ruling on attorney’s fees, the trial court 
did not grant relief in favor of UMB Bank and TMI. UMB Bank and TMI did not 
prevail on their conditional claims; instead, the condition to trigger these claims 
never occurred. 

77 
 
Bouldin under the Guaranty. We therefore hold that the trial court erred by ordering 
Bouldin to pay attorney’s fees to Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI.26 
We sustain Bouldin’s fourth issue in part and his fifth issue. 
 
 
 
26  
Similarly, because we reverse the judgment of the trial court on Preston Hollow’s 
breach of contract claim and remand that claim for a new trial and because the trial 
court did not award a specific amount of attorney’s fees for Preston Hollow’s breach 
of contract claim and a specific amount of attorney’s fees for UMB Bank and TMI’s 
declaratory judgment claim, we vacate the portion of the judgment that awards 
Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, and TMI attorney’s fees against Senior Care. 

78 
 
Conclusion 
We reverse the portion of the trial court’s judgment that granted Preston 
Hollow judgment against Bouldin under the Guaranty and render judgment that 
Preston Hollow may not enforce the Guaranty against Bouldin. We also reverse the 
portions of the judgment that granted Preston Hollow judgment against Senior Care 
for breach of contract and awarded Preston Hollow $52,597,040.06 in damages and 
pre-judgment interest against Senior Care. We remand Preston Hollow’s breach of 
contract claim against Senior Care for a new trial. We also remand UMB Bank and 
TMI’s claims against Bouldin under the Guaranty for further proceedings.27 We 
further vacate the award of attorney’s fees in favor of Preston Hollow, UMB Bank, 
and TMI. We affirm the remaining portions of the trial court’s judgment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April L. Farris 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice 
 
Panel consists of Justices Hightower, Rivas-Molloy, and Farris. 
 
 
27  
Because the condition to trigger UMB Bank and TMI’s claims against Bouldin 
under the Guaranty did not occur while the underlying proceeding was pending in 
the trial court, these claims were not tried in the underlying trial. On appeal, 
however, we have determined that Preston Hollow may not enforce the Guaranty 
against Bouldin. We therefore remand not for a new trial on UMB Bank and TMI’s 
claims against Bouldin, but for a trial in the first instance. 
