TEXAS COURT OF APPEALS, THIRD DISTRICT, AT AUSTIN 
 
 
NO.  03-19-00143-CV 
 
 
The State of Texas, Appellant 
 
v. 
 
Skyway Holdings LLC and Anderson Auto Salvage a/k/a Anderson Towing Inc., Appellees 
 
 
FROM THE COUNTY COURT AT LAW NO. 3 OF BELL COUNTY 
NO. 76172, THE HONORABLE F. B. MCGREGOR, JR., JUDGE PRESIDING 
 
 
M E M O R A N D U M   O P I N I O N 
 
 
In this appeal, the State requests a new trial after the jury awarded $508,548 as 
compensation for the State’s condemnation of a parcel from a tract of land that was owned and 
operated as a salvage yard by Skyway Holdings and Anderson Auto Salvage (the Anderson 
Companies).  The State argues that insufficient evidence supports the award because the trial 
court abused its discretion in admitting unreliable and irrelevant testimony from expert witnesses 
and in excluding relevant cross examination testimony.  We disagree and affirm. 
BACKGROUND1 
 
 
Since 1988, Harold and Sandra Anderson, through the Anderson Companies, have 
owned and operated a salvage yard on 17.538 acres (the Property) located on IH-35 in Troy, 
Texas (the City).  Harold owns and operates Anderson Auto Salvage, and the Andersons jointly 
 
1  The background recital is taken from the evidence presented at trial. 

2 
 
own Skyway Holdings.  In 2006, the City annexed the Property, zoning it for light industrial use 
but allowing the Property to continue operating as a salvage yard through a special use permit. 
 
 
In 2013, the State sought to widen IH-35 and filed a petition for condemnation, 
seeking to acquire 0.22 acres of the Property (the Parcel), leaving 17.318 acres of the Property 
(the Remainder Property).  The special commissioners awarded $74,429 in damages, and the 
Anderson Companies challenged the award and demanded a jury trial.  By agreement, the parties 
set April 11, 2013, as the valuation date—i.e., the effective date of the taking.  Before trial, the 
Anderson Companies designated Josh Korman as an appraisal expert, Charles Dunn as a real 
estate expert, and Harold as a witness testifying under the Property Owner Rule, see Natural Gas 
Pipeline Co. of Am. v. Justiss, 397 S.W.3d 150, 157 (Tex. 2012) (excepting property owners 
from requirement that witnesses must otherwise establish qualifications to express opinion on 
land values).  The State moved to exclude their opinions on various grounds, which the trial 
court denied after a Texas Rule of Evidence 702 gatekeeper hearing.  The Anderson Companies 
also filed a motion in limine to prevent reference to business income after the taking, which the 
trial court granted. 
 
 
The jury trial occurred over three days in October 2018 and primarily consisted of 
the testimony of the parties’ experts.  Before the cross examination of Harold, the State’s counsel 
again requested a ruling on whether he could question Harold as to increased business revenues 
following the taking.  The trial court denied the request but allowed counsel to ask whether the 
business is still ongoing.  At the close of trial, the Anderson Companies requested between 
$508,548 and $1 million in compensation, and the State asked for between $74,875 and $96,206 
to compensate the Andersons.  The charge presented the following question to the jury: 

3 
 
As of April 11, 2013, what do you find is the difference between the Market 
Value of the Defendants’ Whole Property immediately before the condemnation 
and the Market Value of the Defendants’ Remainder Property immediately after 
the condemnation, taking into consideration the nature of any improvements and 
the use of the part being acquired along with damages to the remaining property, 
if any? 
During deliberation, the jury asked the trial court the following question: 
To clarify, the State recommends that amount of 74,875 to 96,206.  And the 
Defense recommends an amount of 508,548 to 1 million.  Are we able to 
award an amount between 74,875 and 1 million, or do we have to stay within 
these ranges[?] 
The trial court submitted the parties’ joint response:  “You are permitted to award any number 
between $74,875 and $1 million as long as it is supported by the evidence.”  The jury returned 
with a verdict of $508,548, and the trial court rendered judgment on the verdict.  The trial court 
denied the State’s motion for new trial, and this appeal followed. 
RELEVANT LAW AND STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
 
When real property is taken for public use, the Texas Constitution requires 
adequate compensation.  See Tex. Const. art. I, § 17.  When only part of a tract is condemned, 
“adequate compensation is required for both the part taken and any resulting damage to the 
remainder.”  County of Bexar v. Santikos, 144 S.W.3d 455, 459 (Tex. 2004).  Damages “are 
generally calculated by the difference between the market value of the remainder property 
immediately before and after the condemnation, considering the nature of any improvements and 
the use of the land taken.”  Id.  The trial court “must first determine if claimed damages are 
compensable” and then “admit evidence accordingly.”  State v. Bristol Hotel Asset Co., 
293 S.W.3d 170, 175 (Tex. 2009) (per curiam). 

4 
 
 
 
We review a trial court’s evidentiary rulings for abuse of discretion—e.g., acting 
without regard for any guiding rules.  See Caffe Ribs, Inc. v. State, 487 S.W.3d 137, 142 (Tex. 
2016).  “To testify as an expert, a witness must be qualified, and the proposed testimony must 
be relevant to the issues in the case and based upon a reliable foundation.”  Gunn v. McCoy, 
554 S.W.3d 645, 666 (Tex. 2018).  “The trial court’s role is not to determine the truth or falsity 
of the expert’s opinion” but “to make the initial determination whether the expert’s opinion is 
relevant and whether the methods and research upon which it is based are reliable.”  E.I. du Pont 
de Nemours & Co. v. Robinson, 923 S.W.2d 549, 558 (Tex. 1995).  “To be relevant, the expert’s 
opinion must be based on the facts; to be reliable, the opinion must be based on sound reasoning 
and methodology.”  State v. Central Expressway Sign Assocs., 302 S.W.3d 866, 870 (Tex. 2009).  
“To reverse a judgment based on a claimed error in admitting or excluding evidence,” we review 
the entire record and “a party must show that the error probably resulted in an improper 
judgment.”  Interstate Northborough P’ship v. State, 66 S.W.3d 213, 220 (Tex. 2001).  The 
Texas Supreme Court has “recognized the impossibility of establishing a specific test for 
determining harmful error,” thereby “entrust[ing] the matter to the sound discretion of the 
reviewing court.”  Caffe Ribs, 487 S.W.3d at 145. 
DISCUSSION 
 
 
On appeal, the State raises five issues.  In its first three issues, the State challenges 
the admission of Korman’s “unreliable damages opinion,” Dunn’s “unsupported opinions,” and 
Harold’s “unsupported valuation opinion.”  In its fourth issue, the State challenges the exclusion 
of “testimony concerning the lack of functional impact” on the business.  Finally, in its fifth 
issue, the State challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the jury award. 

5 
 
Korman’s Testimony 
 
 
The Anderson Companies designated Korman, a real estate appraiser who has 
experience appraising salvage yards, as an expert appraiser.  Texas Rule of Evidence 702 applies 
to the “testimony of expert appraisal witnesses in condemnation actions.”  Guadalupe-Blanco 
River Auth. v. Kraft, 77 S.W.3d 805, 807 (Tex. 2002) (citing Tex. R. Evid. 702).  “Appraisal 
expertise is a form of ‘specialized knowledge [used to] assist the trier of fact to . . . determine a 
fact in issue’” and “is therefore subject to Gammill’s relevance and reliability requirements.”  Id. 
(quoting Tex. R. Evid. 702; citing Gammill v. Jack Williams Chevrolet, Inc., 972 S.W.2d 713, 
726 (Tex. 1998)). 
 
 
The State does not contest Korman’s expert qualifications or the relevance of 
Korman’s opinion; the State challenges only the reliability of Korman’s testimony.  In reviewing 
reliability determinations, “the court ‘necessarily looks beyond what the expert said’ to evaluate 
the reliability of the expert’s opinion.”  Coastal Transp. Co. v. Crown Cent. Petrol. Corp., 
136 S.W.3d 227, 233 (Tex. 2004) (quoting Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc. v. Havner, 953 S.W.2d 706, 
712 (Tex. 1997)).  “[W]e do not decide whether the expert’s opinions are correct; rather, 
we determine whether the analysis used to form those opinions is reliable.”  Gharda USA, Inc. 
v. Control Sols., Inc., 464 S.W.3d 338, 349 (Tex. 2015).  “Expert testimony is unreliable ‘if there 
is too great an analytical gap between the data on which the expert relies and the opinion 
offered’”—e.g., if “the expert unreliably applies otherwise sound principles and methodologies,” 
“the expert’s opinion is based on assumed facts that vary materially from the facts in the record,” 
or “the expert’s opinion is based on tests or data that do not support the conclusions reached.”  
Id. (quoting Volkswagen of Am., Inc. v. Ramirez, 159 S.W.3d 897, 904–05 (Tex. 2004)). 

6 
 
 
 
Korman applied the cost approach, which the State does not challenge.  See 
Central Expressway, 302 S.W.3d at 871 (“The cost approach looks to the cost of replacing the 
condemned property minus depreciation.”); Williams v. State, 406 S.W.3d 273, 284 (Tex. 
App.—San Antonio 2013, pet. denied) (“The first step in [the cost] approach is to determine the 
market value of the underlying land, free of any structures, via the comparable-sales method.  
That figure is then added to the cost of reproducing the existing structures less their 
depreciation.” (citing State v. Whataburger, Inc., 60 S.W.3d 256, 262 (Tex. App.—Houston 
[14th Dist.] 2001, pet. denied))).2  Applying the cost approach, Korman opined that the value of 
the Remainder Property before the taking was $1,675,112; that the value after the taking was 
$1,223,735; and that subtracting the latter number from the former produces $451,377 in 
damages.  Korman then added $56,171 as the value for the Parcel taken to produce a value of 
$508,548 as compensation—the same amount that the jury awarded.  The State does not contest 
Korman’s calculations of $1,675,112 or $56,171; the State contests only the $1,223,735 
valuation for the Remainder Property after the taking, which Korman arrived at as shown by the 
following chart: 
 
2  Korman noted in his expert report, “Because of the unique nature of the subject 
property as an auto salvage yard with specific improvements, improved comparable sales figures 
are lacking in the market area and the improved comparable sales methodology doesn’t 
accurately measure market value for this particular property.”  See City of Harlingen v. Estate of 
Sharboneau, 48 S.W.3d 177, 183 (Tex. 2001) (noting that cost approach “is best suited for 
valuing improved property that is unique in character and not frequently exchanged on the 
marketplace”; that “[w]hile the cost method takes the property’s depreciation into account, it still 
‘tends to set the upper limit of true market value’”; and that “[w]hen comparable sales figures are 
lacking or the method is otherwise inadequate as a measure of fair market value, courts have 
accepted testimony based on the cost approach and the income approach” (quoting Polk County 
v. Tenneco, Inc., 554 S.W.2d 918, 921 (Tex. 1977))). 

7 
 
 
Looking specifically at the “Depreciation” row, Korman explained that the “depreciation before 
[the taking] was 28 percent” based on the age of the improvements but after the taking “[t]hat 
has been increased [to] 75 percent because we believe there’s functional obsolescence.”  Korman 
defined “functional obsolescence” as “caused by a flaw in the structure, materials, or design of 
an improvement when the improvement is compared with the highest and best use and most cost 
effective functional design requirements at the time of the appraisal.”3  At trial, he explained “the 
math is once they’re physically depreciated 28 percent, we then depreciate another 65 percent” 
for functional obsolescence and “just because you’re multiplying 28 percent, 65 percent roughly 
comes out to be 75 percent.”  This 65% depreciation value was applied to all the improvements. 
 
 
The State raises two challenges to the testimony.  First, the State complains that 
“Korman employed no test to measure the site’s utility, either before or after, against market 
standards” to calculate the 65% depreciation value.  Second, the State challenges the reliability 
 
3  Relying on a real estate appraisal dictionary, Korman’s report defined “Functional 
Utility” as “Impairment of the functional capacity of a property or building according to market 
tastes and standards; equivalent to functional obsolescence when ongoing change makes layouts 
and features obsolete and impairs value.” 

8 
 
of Korman’s application of a 65% depreciation value to “all improvements on the remainder, 
including the gravel and fencing on the back seventeen acres of the salvage yard storage area, far 
removed from the driveways and vehicular traffic” and argues that “there is no evidence the 
gravel and fencing on the remaining seventeen acres suffered any loss of functionality.” 
 
 
As to the first challenge, Korman testified that he first determined the effective 
age of the improvements on April 11, 2013, right before the State’s taking.  He concluded that 
“we were looking at an effective age that was between 23 and 25 years” based on “the actual age 
of the improvements and how they were being used” and that “when you blend in all of the 
improvements including the buildings, everything down to the gravel paving,” the overall 
physical depreciation “was 28 percent roughly.”  Korman explained in his report that “based on 
market participants, interviews with property owners and their representatives, and a review of 
the site plans and documents provided by Hutson, the highest and best use remains for an auto 
salvage facility, but at a diminished function”—in other words “functional obsolescence . . . 
results in increased depreciation.”  He described the taking’s effect upon the improvements: 
Due to the location of the taking the northern driveway will be relocated 
approximately 110 feet south from its location before the taking.  The location of 
the taking and the change in access (including the relocation of the northernmost 
driveway which was the primary entrance for retail and truck traffic) create 
material functionality, internal site circulation, safety, security, and operation 
problems.  Traffic can no longer circulate from the northern driveway, pass the 
primary building and drop-off area, and exit the southern driveway.  The primary 
building is now isolated from the circulation pattern.  Ultimately the taking causes 
site, circulation, and safety issues after the taking as demonstrated by the 2 
operational options analyzed by Hutson Land Planners & Development 
Consultants, LLC (Hutson).4 
 
4  Korman considered the two cure options proposed by Hutson but concluded that these 
options are not financially feasible.  The State does not challenge Korman’s opinion as to the 
rejection of the cure options. 

9 
 
At trial, he discussed at length these issues that resulted from the taking—including those related 
to “proximity,” “safety,” “security,” and “internal circulation”—explaining: 
There’s circulation challenges where before you used to go in front of the office 
and down by the dismantling area.  . . .  [Y]ou had a checkpoint there at the office.  
You know there was security.  You have unloading challenges now.  You have 
traffic flow issues with customers, you know -- you know, customers hitting cars 
going left and trying to instruct trucks to go right.  . . .  [Y]ou have proximity 
issues.  Rough numbers here, you were 70-plus feet away from the right-of-way 
beforehand.  And now you’re roughly 45-ish feet -- 40 to 45 feet from the right-
of-way now.  And that’s the dismantling area here, office here.  . . .  In this 
situation, it’s not good. 
He testified that for these reasons the “property doesn’t work the same” after the taking, the 
depreciation “has been increased 75 percent because we believe there’s functional 
obsolescence,” and what “the 75 percent represents is things are getting towards the end of their 
useful life.”  Korman further explained that the “the increase from roughly 28 percent to 75 
percent” for functional obsolescence includes “a continued risk” that the City would not provide 
a permit if the Anderson Companies tried to fix the problems with the Property; a “risk factor 
[of] maybe losing that 30 percent enhancement”; and “that you’re 40 percent closer to the right-
of-way,” which “are things that the buyers and sellers are going to want to know.”  Cf. State 
v. Little Elm Plaza, Ltd., No. 02-11-00037-CV, 2012 WL 5258695, at *12 (Tex. App.—Fort 
Worth Oct. 25, 2012, pet. dism’d) (mem. op.) (“[A]n expert may testify about how an 
uncertainty with regard to a governmental action may have affected the market value (in other 
words, how potential buyers and sellers would weigh the risks related to the property) on the date 
of the taking[.]”). 
 
 
At trial, Korman explained that he used “the same methodology” as he did in 
determining the depreciation before the taking, relying on the “Marshall & Swift Guide” (the 

10 
 
Guide) to calculate the improvement value, given the functional obsolescence the property had 
following the taking.  Both Korman and the State’s appraiser testified that professional 
appraisers often rely on the Guide to calculate depreciation.  Specifically, Korman testified that 
he relied on a chart in the Guide called the “Depreciation Chart.”  The instructions for using the 
chart in the Guide explain that “it is simply a matter of looking up the typical building life and 
the calculated effective age.”  The “effective age” is “simply the number of years of apparent 
age, which can be established by deducing estimated remaining life from typical life 
expectancy.”  The depreciation percentage is then “determined by finding the typical life of the 
building (top of the chart), the effective age (side of the chart):  the intersection of the two is the 
depreciation percentage.”  In deposition testimony included in the record, Korman explained:  
[W]e believe that [the taking] had a significant impact on the property, bringing it 
closer to the end of its economic life.  And then we looked at the charts to see 
what type of depreciation you see for properties at the end of their economic life. 
. . .  [T]hrough the Marshall and Swift chart, yeah, at the end of the life, it’s in that 
75 to 80 percent range as far as depreciation  . . . [and] that’s how we got there.   
Thus, Korman “looked at what properties are depreciated at the end of their economic life, being 
in that 75 to 80 percent range” and noted “[t]hat 75 percent is representative of 42-year-old 
effective age building,” according to the chart.  He explained that “[p]hysically” the 
improvements on the Remainder did not “age 21 years as a result of the State’s acquisition” but 
“economically, it did.”  He testified that “[t]his is where the real difference is”:  “[t]he 
depreciation [of the improvements] before was 28 percent” but after the taking “[t]hat has been 
increased 75 percent because we believe there’s functional obsolescence” and “[w]hat that 75 
percent represents is things are getting towards the end of their useful life.” 

11 
 
 
 
Korman testified that he visited the Property multiple times, that he has specific 
experience appraising salvage yards throughout Texas, that neither he nor Harold were aware of 
any salvage yard sales in this market area, and that salvage yards are “not a common property 
type, not just in this marketplace but anywhere that transacts.”  In deposition testimony included 
in the record, Korman explained that to determine the functional obsolescence value, “I went to 
the marketplace, but, like I said, facilities that are like this, I was unable to find those types of 
transactions of properties that function like this,” that “people don’t develop properties in the 
manner that this one now sits,” and that “I’m not aware of there being something that I can test it 
against.”  At the Texas Rule of Evidence 702 gatekeeper hearing, when asked whether he had 
hard numbers that support the diminished value for functional obsolescence, Korman responded 
that “[w]e have looked at other studies that look at other functional issues” but “[w]e just don’t 
have any other properties like the subject that have actually traded where we can actually analyze 
that just because that’s not the way they’re developed.”  Korman stated that he did look at other 
appraisals that helped him determine the percentage for the functional obsolescence, but 
he explained:  
Well, we’ve looked at other properties that have -- I’ll kind of call it a greater 
functional penalty that are put on them that I believe have been turned over to 
you.  But other than that, you know, we’re looking to the Marshall evaluation 
charts for properties that are at the end of their economic life.  . . .  There are other 
ones that are in that range that were in that 75 to 100 percent diminution of value.  
However, I thought the Marshall was the best guide for us for something being at 
the end of their economic life.  So we have looked at other numbers -- 
quantifiable numbers.  But I do feel that those were more extreme. 
And Korman described in his deposition testimony in the record that he “was erring on the side 
of 75 percent, which is on the low end of that range” for improvements towards the end of their 
economic life. 

12 
 
 
 
Given Korman’s experience and the testimony as to the uniqueness of salvage 
yard sales, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting his testimony, 
including his expert opinion that the Remainder Property improvements were at the end of their 
economic life and therefore had effectively aged economically due to functional obsolescence 
the equivalent of physically aging 21 years as a result of the State’s acquisition.  Cf. Bombardier 
Aerospace Corp. v. SPEP Aircraft Holdings, LLC, 572 S.W.3d 213, 227 (Tex. 2019) (“Although 
valuation testimony in other industries may be more thorough, the aircraft appraisal industry 
presents unique challenges in valuing specific aircraft.  . . .  We note that [the expert’s] 
experience with aircraft alone may be a sufficient basis for his valuation, and coupled with the 
engines’ issues, we conclude that he provided sufficient bases for his valuation opinion.”); 
Gammill, 972 S.W.2d at 726 (holding that “[e]xperience alone may provide a sufficient basis for 
an expert’s testimony in some cases”).  Korman identified facts and reasons as to why functional 
obsolescence occurred and relied upon his experience and the Guide to calculate the value of that 
functional obsolescence based upon his judgment that the improvements were at the end of their 
economic life.  Even if Korman’s testimony could have been more thorough, the thoroughness of 
the testimony goes to the weight of the evidence, not its admissibility.  See Bustamante v. Ponte, 
529 S.W.3d 447, 465 (Tex. 2017) (noting experts’ “testimony could have been better” but that 
“they did not simply state a conclusion without any explanation or ask the jurors to take their 
word for it”); Williams, 406 S.W.3d at 284 (“Texas courts have given appraisers a wide degree 
of latitude based on their experience when determining admissibility.”); see also Caffe Ribs, 
487 S.W.3d at 144 (“When an expert’s opinion is predicated on a particular set of facts, those 
facts need not be undisputed.  An expert’s opinion is only unreliable if it is contrary to actual, 
undisputed facts.” (citations omitted)).  On this record, we conclude that the lack of a precise test 

13 
 
to calculate the specific 75 percent depreciation or to determine an effective age of 42 years for 
the improvements that Korman already had determined to be at the end of their economic life did 
not preclude the trial court from admitting Korman’s testimony.  Cf. Harris Cnty. Appraisal Dist. 
v. Kempwood Plaza Ltd., 186 S.W.3d 155, 161 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2006, no pet.) 
(rejecting unreliability argument that expert did not “explain the math” behind adjustments 
because although “there was no precise mathematical formulation that lead [sic] to [the expert] 
using 15% as the rate of adjustment,” expert “did provide a rationale for the adjustments he 
made,” precise mathematical formulation “was not required” because “[a]ppraising property is 
not an exact science based on set mathematical formulas,” and “the lack of a mathematical 
formula in this circumstance does not raise any suspicion of an analytical gap”). 
 
 
A disagreement between experts as to the value and existence of depreciation is 
part and parcel of trial, cf. Morale v. State, 557 S.W.3d 569, 574 (Tex. 2018) (per curiam) (“A 
disagreement between experts as to the value of land after condemnation is part and parcel of 
trial.”), and “[t]he trial court’s gatekeeping function under Rule 702 does not supplant 
cross-examination as ‘the traditional and appropriate means of attacking shaky but admissible 
evidence,’” Gammill, 972 S.W.2d at 728 (quoting Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc., 
509 U.S. 579, 596 (1993)).  Certainly the State was entitled to, and did, cross examine Korman 
on his assumptions and present evidence explaining to the jury why the State disagreed with 
Korman’s opinions on functional obsolescence.  Cf. Morale, 557 S.W.3d at 574, 576 (noting that 
“[c]ertainly the State was entitled to, and did, present evidence explaining to the jury” why 
expert’s opinions were incorrect and that “the State was free to cross-examine [the expert] on his 
assumptions, but [the assumptions] did not render his testimony wholly speculative and therefore 
inadmissible”).  But it is not our province to determine whether the jury correctly weighed the 

14 
 
evidence.  See Gharda, 464 S.W.3d at 349 (“[W]e do not decide whether the expert’s opinions 
are correct; rather, we determine whether the analysis used to form those opinions is reliable.”); 
cf. Gammill, 972 S.W.2d at 728 (recognizing that “trial court’s task is sometimes a difficult one” 
and that “the issue is a close one” before concluding that trial court did not abuse its discretion).  
We conclude that on this record the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that 
Korman’s analysis in his opinions was reliable and therefore admissible. 
 
 
As to the State’s second challenge regarding Korman’s application of the 
depreciation percentage for functional obsolescence to all the improvements, we also hold that 
the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that Korman’s analysis was reliable.  
The State claims that “Korman’s damage calculation included sixty-five percent depreciation for 
functional obsolescence of all improvements on the remainder, including the gravel and fencing 
on the back seventeen acres of the salvage yard storage area, far removed from the driveways 
and vehicular traffic.”  At trial, Korman was asked, “So because of the State’s acquisition, the 
value of the gravel out on the site has diminished in value from the $242,086 to $81,230?”  
Korman responded, “Yeah.  I need to be clear.  I understand that’s the way the math works, but 
we’re talking about the whole property scenario.  In other words, nobody comes and just buys 
the canopy, just buys the building, just buys the gravel, for instance.  The whole property 
diminishes.”  Accordingly, in calculating the depreciation of the improvements before the taking, 
Korman “blend[ed] in all of the improvements including the buildings, everything down to the 
gravel paving,” and did the same for calculating the depreciation after the taking.  As he 
explained in his deposition testimony included in the record, the functional obsolescence is 
because of “general functional problems that are on the subject property for being able to operate 
the real estate the way it’s supposed to and what it was meant to do” including “because of the 

15 
 
right-of-way line moving closer, the drive moving to the south,” “proximity issues between the 
building, customer interference, truck traffic interference, safety, security problems.”  Thus, his 
testimony effectively was that the “general functional problems” affected the improvements on 
the property as a whole and how the improvements interacted with each other as a whole.  The 
State complains that “Korman did not explain how the gravel could function 65% less as gravel 
due to the acquisition” and rhetorically asks, “[h]ow is land value not impacted” when “gravel is 
impacted”?  But under the cost approach, the determination of land value is a different inquiry 
than the determination of the value of improvements minus depreciation; it is the existing 
structures and improvements that are depreciated, not the underlying land.  See Williams, 
406 S.W.3d at 284 (“The first step in [the cost] approach is to determine the market value of the 
underlying land, free of any structures, via the comparable-sales method.  That figure is then 
added to the cost of reproducing the existing structures less their depreciation.” (citing 
Whataburger, 60 S.W.3d at 262)).  We conclude that on this record, the trial court did not abuse 
its discretion in allowing Korman’s expert testimony that applied the depreciation percentage to 
all the improvements on the land. 
 
 
Because we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting 
Korman’s expert testimony, we need not address the State’s challenges to the other experts or its 
sufficiency challenge.  The amount of damages the jury awarded equaled the amount of damages 
Korman calculated for compensation, which was lower than Dunn’s or Anderson’s calculated 
amount.  Thus, even if the trial court had abused its discretion in admitting Dunn’s or Anderson’s 
testimony, the State has not shown how the error was harmful and probably resulted in an 
improper judgment given Korman’s admitted testimony.  See Caffe Ribs, 487 S.W.3d at 144–45.  
And the State’s sufficiency challenge depends on the exclusion of the challenged evidence, 

16 
 
including Korman’s testimony.  We therefore overrule the State’s first three issues and its 
fifth issue. 
State’s Rebuttal Testimony 
 
 
In the State’s remaining issue, the State challenges the trial court’s exclusion of its 
rebuttal testimony.  Before Harold’s cross examination, the State’s counsel approached the bench 
and requested a ruling on the Anderson Companies’ motion in limine related to the State’s ability 
to address business revenues following the taking.  Specifically, the State’s counsel said, “I don’t 
want to get into the specific profits.  All I want to do is ask one simple question, and that’s, Since 
the date of value, your revenues have increased, correct?”  The trial court ruled from the bench:   
This will be the order of the Court:  The Court finds that the request to get into or 
ask the question that’s been proffered will be denied.  I will allow a question as to 
whether or not the business is ongoing.  And then the Jury can determine from 
that standpoint whatever value they want to give to that idea.  They may conclude 
that if it’s not a viable business, it wouldn’t be ongoing five years later.  I don’t 
think that’s -- that may relate to functionality.  You could argue that as to the 
question that you proffered.  I will deny that. 
The State then made an offer of proof, asking Harold, “Since the State’s acquisition, have your 
revenues on that site actually increased?”  Harold responded affirmatively.  The Anderson 
Companies’ counsel then asked Harold why the revenues have increased.  He responded, “we 
really pushed the internet sales for one thing,” “we’re delivering a lot more parts,” and “the 
economy is good right now.” 
 
 
Generally, “Texas courts have refused to consider business income in making 
condemnation awards.”  Central Expressway, 302 S.W.3d at 871.  But the State argues that it 
was permitted to ask Harold a question about business revenues to rebut testimony on functional 
obsolescence.  The State claims that the trial court abused its discretion because “the increase in 

17 
 
revenues shows the effect of the acquisition on the Property:  the existing, post-acquisition 
configuration does not suffer from diminished utility, nor is it rendered less functional as a result 
of the State’s acquisition.” 
 
 
We need not consider whether the trial court abused its discretion in excluding the 
question on whether business revenues increased, however, because the State has not established 
harmful error—i.e., that the exclusion probably caused the rendition of an improper judgment.  
See Tex. R. App. P. 44.1(a)(1); Central Expressway, 302 S.W.3d at 870.  The trial court 
permitted a question on whether the business is ongoing.  Thus, the State would have to show 
that evidence of increased revenues demonstrated something more than evidence that the 
business is ongoing such that exclusion of the former probably caused the rendition of an 
improper judgment or is “crucial to a key issue.”  Central Expressway, 302 S.W.3d at 870.  Our 
review of the record does not reveal how the exclusion of evidence of increased revenues 
probably caused the rendition of an improper judgment.  See id. (requiring review of record to 
determine if excluded evidence probably resulted in rendition of improper judgment).  In the 
offer of proof, Anderson explained that the revenues increased because the “economy is good 
right now” and online sales have increased—factors that have minimal, if any, relevance to the 
functionality of structures and improvements on the Property.  And the Texas Supreme Court has 
noted that business profits are generally excluded in a condemnation award because they “are 
speculative and often depend more upon the capital invested, general market conditions, and the 
business skill of the person conducting it than it does on the business’s location.”  Id. at 871.  
Thus, given that the trial court permitted a question as to whether the business was ongoing, we 
conclude that the exclusion of additional rebuttal testimony regarding increased business 

18 
 
revenues did not probably cause the rendition of an improper judgment.  We overrule the State’s 
fourth issue. 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
Having overruled the State’s issues on appeal, we affirm. 
 
__________________________________________ 
Melissa Goodwin, Justice 
Before Justices Goodwin, Kelly, and Smith 
Affirmed 
Filed:   March 5, 2021 
