UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
Norfolk Division
DANIEL KHOSHABA,
Plaintiff,
V. Civil Action No. 2:24cv237
JOSEPH D. STILWELL, et al ● /
Defendants.
OPINION AND ORDER
This matter is before the Court on two motions to dismiss.^
The first motion, ECF No. 25, was filed collectively by Joseph D.
Stilwell, E.J. Borrack, Kerry Campbell, Paula Poskon, Megan Parisi,
Stefani Carter, Saverio Flemma, Michelle Bergman, Dennis Pollack,
and M. Andrew Franklin (the \\ Individual Defendants"). The second
motion, ECF No. 27, was filed collectively by Stilwell Value
Partners VII, L.P., Stilwell Activist Fund, L.P., Stilwell Activist
Investments, L.P., Stilwell Associates, L.P., and Stilwell Value
LLC (the "Fund Defendants" or "Stilwell Fund Defendants") . Because
the facts and legal questions are adequately presented in the
motions and subsequent briefs, and oral argument would not aid in
the decisional process. the Court finds that a hearing is
unnecessary and thus declines the parties' joint request for oral
argument. ECF No. 39. For the reasons stated below, the Individual
Defendants' Motion to Dismiss is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part, ECF Nos. 23 Sc 24, and the Stilwell Fund Defendants' Motion
to Dismiss is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. ECF No. 26.
I. BACKGROUND
On April 10, 2024, Daniel Khoshaba {"Plaintiff") filed a
Complaint against the Individual Defendants and the Stilwell Fund
Defendants. The Complaint was filed both derivatively on behalf
of Wheeler Real Investment Trust, Inc. ("Wheeler" or "the Company")
and directly on behalf of Plaintiff and a putative class of Wheeler
common stockholders.^ ECF No. 1, at 1. In his Complaint, Plaintiff
challenges a series of business decisions and financial
transactions made by members of Wheeler's Board of Directors (the
Board") and corporate management from approximately 2021-2024.
Id. at 2. All Individual Defendants are past or current members
of Wheeler's Board, with the exception of M. Andrew Franklin
("Franklin"), who is the current Chief Executive Officer ("CEO")
of Wheeler. Id. at 8. The Stilwell Fund Defendants are investment
funds allegedly owned and controlled by Joseph Stilwell
("Stilwell"), an Individual Defendant and current member of
Wheeler's Board. Id. at 7. The Court sets forth relevant factual
background below.
A. Wheeler's Financial History
Established in 1999 and incorporated under Maryland law,
Wheeler is a real estate investment trust that owns, leases, and
operates commercial real estate. with a primary focus on grocery-
anchored shopping centers. Id. at 9. Wheeler publicly trades on
the NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker "WHLR" and maintains its
principal office in Virginia Beach, VA. Id.
From 2016-2018, Wheeler registered and issued over three
million shares of its Series D Preferred Stock ft ("D Stock")
through two separate offerings.^ Id. at 9-10. Wheeler first
registered and offered 1,600,000 shares of dividend-bearing D Stock
in September of 2 016.^^ Id. at 9. Under the D Stock offering terms,
for eligible years in which D Stock dividends were not paid in
full, the dividend rate cumulatively accrued subject to a maximum
annual rate. Id. Wheeler had the ability to redeem these shares
of D Stock (i.e. buy them back at the Company's discretion) on or
after September 21, 2021, for $25 per share in cash — plus all
accrued and unpaid dividends until September 21, 2023 {the
\\ Redemption Date"). Id. at 10. Critically, on or after the
Redemption Date, the shareholder could cause Wheeler to redeem the
holder's D Stock shares for $25 per share (plus accrued and unpaid
dividends) in cash or shares of common stock. Id.
In January of 2018, Wheeler issued an additional 1,552,392
[shares of D Stock] for a price of $16.50, // a figure "well below //
the $25 redemption price that D Stockholders would be able to
trigger on or after the Redemption Date. Id. In December of 2018,
Wheeler announced that it u would not pay its fourth quarter
dividends for the [D Stock] shares. // Such dividends have been
suspended, and thus accruing, since December 2018. Id.
B. Stilwell's Investment
Beginning in June of 2016, Stilwell and the Stilwell Fund
Defendants made initial investments in Wheeler. Id. In
Plaintiff's characterization, Stilwell is the principal and
managing member of Stilwell Value LLC, an "activist hedge fund if
(and Fund Defendant) that functions as the investment advisor to
other investment funds that, together, comprise the "Stilwell
Group. // Id. at 7. After Stilwell and funds within the Stilwell
Group made investments in Wheeler, they launched "proxy fights" to
change the membership of Wheeler's Board of Directors, first
unsuccessfully in 2018, then successfully in 2019.^ Id. at 11-12.
In the course of these proxy fights, Stilwell expressed concerns
about Wheeler's issuance of D Stock, calling such issuances
w dilutive and therefore harmful to Wheeler common stockholders. //
and questioned why "the Board approved the issuance of additional
preferred debt [at] such a deep discount to face value. t§ Id. at
11.
Stilwell's victorious proxy fight in 2019 resulted in the
appointment of Stilwell and several of his nominees to Wheeler's
Board, including Individual Defendants Paula Poskon ("Poskon") and
Kerry Campbell ("Campbell"). Id. In Plaintiff's telling, Stilwell
convinced stockholders to elect him and his nominees to the Board
by criticizing Wheeler's poor capital allocation decisions. u
specifically the issuance of D Stock which, in Stilwell's view.
w expose[d] the common stockholders to great consequences in the
future. II Id. at 12. These "great consequences. // in Stilwell's
description, included the prospect of all Series D holders
decid[ing] to redeem their . . . preferred shares. // Id. Should
such redemption occur, Wheeler \\ would have to pay $90,015,900 in
cash or issue the common stock equivalent, thereby significantly
diluting existing common stockholders. // Id. To address this
troubling eventuality, Stilwell recommended selling
underperforming properties to generate cash to buy back the [D
Stock]. // Id. Stilwell has now served as a Wheeler director since
January of 2020. Id. at 7.
Following his successful campaign to join Wheeler's Board, in
February of 2020 Stilwell and his fellow directors filled a Board
vacancy by adding Plaintiff as a director. Id. On April 13, 2020,
the Board appointed Plaintiff as CEO of Wheeler. Id. at 12. Under
his leadership as CEO, Plaintiff reports that Wheeler implemented
a strategy of buying back outstanding shares of D Stock to "prevent
a crisis at the Redemption Date. // Id. at 13. On July 5, 2021,
Plaintiff resigned as CEO and withdrew from consideration for
reelection to the Board. Id. From Plaintiff's perspective,
Stilwell and his allies on the Board pushed [him] to resign as
CEO" to expand their control over the Company" through the
establishment of a u Stilwell-majority Board. // Id. Indeed,
Plaintiff asserts that Stilwell and the Board members whose
nominations Stilwell supported now viewed the [D Stock] as an
opportunity to enrich themselves" and were thus \\ [u]nsatisfied with
Plaintiff's judicious approach to handling the Company's capital. n
Id.
C. The Rights Offering
On July 22, 2021 — approximately two weeks after Plaintiff's
resignation as CEO — Wheeler published a press release announcing
a "Rights Offering" designed to raise capital. Id. at 14. Under
the terms of the Rights Offering, each of Wheeler's common
stockholders became eligible to purchase senior subordinated
convertible notes (the "Notes"), a form of debt security that was
convertible at the holder's option to shares of Wheeler's common
stock, ordinarily at a price of $6.25 per share of common stock
(the Conversion Price"). Id. at 2-3; see 7 Tenn. Juris.
Corporations § 18 (2024)
Importantly, on or following the Redemption Date, if at least
100,000 shares of D Stock were redeemed for common stock, the
conversion rate for the Notes to common stock would be discounted
below the Conversion Price to the lesser of two options: (1) 45
percent below the original Conversion Price; or (2) 45 percent
below the lowest price at which a D Stockholder had converted his
D Stock shares to common stock. Id. at 14. Adding a final term
to the Rights Offering, if the Offering was not fully subscribed.
common stockholders who had otherwise fully exercised their rights
would be permitted to also exercise an over-subscription
privilege" to purchase additional, unsubscribed Notes at the same
price. Id. The Rights Offering was set to expire on August 13,
2021.
In explaining the primary purpose behind the Board's approval
of the Rights Offering, Plaintiff cites the Rights Offering
Prospectus (the Prospectus") filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the SEC"), and highlights language suggesting
that the Offering was intended to raise sufficient capital to fund
future repurchases of . . . [D] Stock. // Id. at 14. To that end.
the Prospectus acknowledges that there is a significant risk that
[Wheeler] will not have sufficient cash to pay the aggregate
redemption price, and would not be able to meet our redemption
obligation without liquidating assets and/or substantial dilution
of our Common Stock. // Id. at 15. Plaintiff thus observes that
the Board and management "plainly understood the gravity of the
potential consequences should the Company fail to reduce the amount
of outstanding [D Stock] before the Redemption Date. // Id.
D. The Challenged Decisions & Transactions
After the Rights Offering closed on August 13, 2021, Plaintiff
alleges that Individual Defendants Stilwell, Borrack, Campbell,
Poskon, Paris! and Franklin (who was appointed CEO following
Plaintiff's resignation) had collectively purchased over 90 percent
of the available Notes. Id. Plaintiff refers to these Individual
Defendants as the \\ Conflicted Insiders. Id. at 8. Importantly,
Plaintiff claims that Stilwell purchased the vast majority of these
Notes personally or through the Stilwell Fund Defendants. Id. at
15 . Indeed, by Plaintiff's calculation, Stilwell and the Fund
Defendants purchased 999,995 Notes for nearly $25 million. Id.
Poskon is alleged to have purchased 6,275 Notes for $156,875
{comprising half of her portfolio of Wheeler holdings) , while
Defendant Campbell allegedly purchased 4,000 Notes for $100,000
(which represented the entirety of Campbell's stock ownership in
Wheeler), and Defendant Franklin supposedly purchased 1,069 Notes
for $26,725, which represented "nearly all of Franklin's holdings
in Wheeler. Id. at 15-16.
Given the Board members' Notes ownership. Plaintiff contends
that the foregoing directors (and the CEO, Franklin) were
improperly incentivized to maximize the value of the Notes, no
matter the effect on the common stock price. Id. at 16. To that
end. Plaintiff alleges that the so-called Conflicted Insiders
preserved the amount of outstanding shares of D stock in order to
benefit from the Notes' discounted conversion rate that would be
triggered by the eventual redemption of 100,000 D Stock shares.
Id. at 16 . Plaintiff adds that these director defendants (and CEO
Franklin) recognized that the preceding course of action would
undermine the original purpose of the Rights Offering — to raise
money to buy back outstanding shares of D Stock to reduce the
redemption risk posed by such outstanding shares. Id.
E. Wheeler Pays Interest on Notes in D Stock and Plaintiff
P\iblishes Critical Letters
In December of 2021, the Board elected to pay interest on all
the Notes through the further issuance of D stock, thereby
increasing the outstanding shares of D stock and the potential
redemption exposure by over $2,842,725, Id, at 17. Responding to
this interest payment decision in late 2021, Plaintiff submitted
multiple public letters to Wheeler's Board criticizing the
directors for "forcing [him] out as CEO if \\ act [ing] in their
own self-interest and contrary to the best interests of the Company
in breach of their fiduciary duties. // Id. The Boax'd acknowledged
Plaintiff's public letters in a brief missive. writing that the
directors were "saddened by [Plaintiff's] recent public letters. //
befo'x-e adding that "while [Plaintiff's] shox-t 16-month tenux-e as
CEO had its pluses and minuses, we respected your written decision
to resign for personal reasons when confronted with some of these
minuses. if Id.
Two months later, on February 28, 2022, Wheeler filed its Form
10-K annual report (with the for fiscal year 2021,
acknowledging that \\ there is a significant risk that the Company
will not have sufficient cash to pay the aggregate redemption
prxce. and would not be able to meet its redemption obligation
without substantial dilution of its common stock. ft Id. at IS. In
June of 2022, the Board elected to pay interest on the Notes in
discounted Series B preferred shares, rather than D Stock. Id.
Five months later, in November of 2022, Wheeler attempted to
buy back shares of D stock prior to the looming Redemption Date
through an "Exchange Offer. // Id. at 19. In Plaintiff's appraisal,
this Exchange Offer had "little appeal u to the D Stockholders
because it asked them to accept reduced interest and \\ sacrifice
roughly $9 in value" for each share of D Stock they held. Id. The
Exchange Offer produced the valid tender of only 26.8 percent of
the outstanding D Stock shares — less than the minimum number of
shares necessary to effectuate the Exchange Offer — and therefore
failed. leaving all shares of D stock outstanding. Id. at 19.
Lamenting the unsuccessful Exchange Offer, Plaintiff insists that
w there was no business justification for failing to buy back all
or nearly all Series D shares with the Redemption Date fast
approaching. n Id. at 20. Indeed, Plaintiff maintains that the
failure to do so is attributable to select Individual Defendants'
personal financial interests in preserving the amount of
outstanding preferred stock so that they could profit from the
discounted conversion rates on their Notes after the Redemption
Date. // Id. at 19. The next month, in December of 2022, the Board
again elected to pay interest on the Notes in discounted Series B
shares, a decision that Plaintiff does not challenge. Id. at 18.
At odds with Plaintiff's recommendation for Wheeler's capital
management, the Company stated in its Form 10-K that it does not
believe it is in its interests to liquidate assets or incur
indebtedness to fund cash redemptions of the Series D Preferred
Stock, // while also acknowledging that the aggregate liquidation
value could reach $119.80 million on the Redemption Date. Id. at
21. On April 11, 2023, Plaintiff submitted another letter to the
Board, admonishing the directors that further issuances of
discounted D Stock would be both substantially dilutive . .
[and] contrary to the Board's fiduciary duties. Id. at 21. The
Board responded through a letter from outside counsel. which
acknowledged that \\ the Company continues to be afflicted by a
capital structure problem n that it has tried to address through
w two separate . . . tender offers and an Exchange Offer // that were
not successful. ECF No . 25-4 , at 2 .
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff penned another public letter to
the Board, urging both the Board and management to, among other
things, \\ immediately begin negotiating a settlement with the
holders of the Company's Series D preferred stock" and "stop
issuing deeply discounted preferred securities in lieu of cash
interest payments" on the Notes. Id. at 21. Plaintiff's letter
continued, asserting that the strategy to pay interest on the Notes
in discounted D Stock shares was \\ for the benefit of essentially
one director" because it "dilutes stockholders, while allowing Mr.
Stilwell to be the primary beneficiary n as w the beneficial owner
of over 80%" of the Notes. Id. at 22.
On May 19, 2023, eight days after receiving Plaintiff's
letter, Wheeler's Board and management decided to again pay
interest on the Notes in D Stock, increasing the number of
outstanding D Stock shares as the Redemption Date approached. Id.
at 22 . Separately, on June 1, 2023, the Board invested $3.5 million
for w limited partnership interests // in Stilwell Activist
Investments, L.P. , one of the Fund Defendants that is allegedly
owned and controlled by Stilwell. Id. at 23. Plaintiff maintains
that this investment explicitly enriched Stilwell and his fund
with cash that should have been used to reduce the outstanding
Series D shares. // Id.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff sent another public letter to the
Board, writing that directors should \\ stop disregarding
stockholders' interests and making self-interested decisions that
appear to insulate themselves from the Company's performance. // Id.
To that end, Plaintiff questioned "who is Mr. Campbell running the
Company for the common stockholders or the noteholders? Id.
Plaintiff concluded with an exhortation: \\ the Company is now in
crisis. Urgent action by the Board and management is necessary. //
Id.
On August 8, 2023, Wheeler filed its Form 10-Q for the second
fiscal quarter of 2023. Id. at 24. In this public report, the
Board and management again noted that the Company does not believe
it is in its interests to liquidate assets or incur indebtedness
to fund cash redemptions of the Series D Preferred Stock. tt Id.
Instead, the report explained, \\ the Company intends to settle
redemptions of Series D Preferred following the Series D Redemption
Date in Common Stock, acknowledging that such course of action
\\ will result in a substantial dilution of the outstanding Common
Stock. n Id.
Throughout 2023, Wheeler's stock price had materially
declined, a downward trajectory that Plaintiff attributes to the
impending dilutive event" recognized in the foregoing Form 10-Q.
Id. By May of 2023, Wheeler's stock price had fallen below NASDAQ's
minimum bid price of $1.00. To address the deterioration of its
stock price, on August 17, 2023, the Board authorized a 1 for 10
reverse stock split of shares of common stock. Id. This stock
split reduced the conversion rate of Notes to common stock but did
not eliminate the Notes' conversion discount that would be
triggered by the redemption of 100,000 shares of D Stock. Id.
Therefore, in Plaintiff's calculation, one important consequence
of this stock split was that the Notes could become more valuable
through common stock conversion after the Redemption Date. Id.
On September 1, 2023, two Individual Defendants and Board
members — Kerry Campbell and Stefani Carter, now acting in their
capacity as members of a "Related Person Transactions Committee
allegedly authorized Wheeler to make a second $3.5 million
investment for limited partnership interests in Fund Defendant
Stilwell Activist Investments, L.P. Id. at 25.
F. D Stock Redemptions Begin
Meanwhile, one month before the impending redemption in
September 2023, Wheeler issued over 100 million shares of common
stock at $0.01 par value per share to account for expected D Stock
redemption. announcing that such redemptions would be processed
monthly beginning in October. Id. In this first month of
redemptions alone, Wheeler issued over two million shares of common
stock to eligible D Stock shareholders, resulting in an aggregate
redemption price of approximately $6.46 million. Id. Because
100,000+ D Stock shares had been redeemed. the redemptions
triggered the discount on the conversion price from Notes to common
stock, which, in Plaintiff's estimation. more than doubled
Stilwell's beneficial ownership of the Company to 83.7 percent of
Wheeler's common stock by October 20, 2023 . Id. at 26. The
putative class of common stockholders (who did not participate in
the Rights Offering) suffered severe dilution, Plaintiff
observes. Id.
In November of 2023, the second month of redemptions, the
Company was "forced" to issue over 14 million shares of common
stock to settle the aggregate redemption price of approximately
$12 million, driving down the common stock price while the Notes
continued to enjoy dramatically improved common stock conversion
rates under the terms of the Rights Offering. Id. As a result.
the Noteholders who elected to convert their Notes to common stock
amassed greater ownership of the Company. Id.
On November 15, 2023, one day after Wheeler announced that it
may not have sufficient common stock to cover continued redemption
requests, the Board again issued discounted shares of D Stock as
interest payment to Noteholders, further increasing the amount of
D Stock shares eligible for immediate redemption. Id. In response
to the challenges posed by the Company's shifting capital
structure, on December 5, 2023, Wheeler entered into an agreement
with Stilwell and the Stilwell Fund Defendants to create a "Capital
Stock Excepted Holder Limit" (the "Stilwell Agreement"). Id. at
27 . In summary, the Stilwell Agreement significantly increased
the pre-existing aggregate stock ownership limit. thereby
authorizing Stilwell's majority ownership of the Company in
exchange for a short-term, one-year agreement by Stilwell and the
Fund Defendants not to convert their Notes into shares of common
stock beyond a set limit. Id. at 27-28.
Over the course of the next four months, D Stock redemptions
continued, and the common stock price continued to decline, while
the Notes' common stock conversion rates grew significantly more
attractive. Id. By April of 2024, Wheeler's common stock was
trading at $0.14 per share, which, by Plaintiff's calculation.
represents a decline in value of over 99 percent in under three
years. Id. at 5. Indeed, Plaintiff reports that his common stock
ownership dwindled from over 11 percent to 1.2 percent or less of
outstanding shares. Id. at 6. Conversely, Stilwell managed to
\\ parlay his Notes into an effective 80-plus percent ownership
stake" in Wheeler. Id. Wheeler is still "far from paying off all
of the Series D shareholders. n and will be \> unable to do so without
further diluting the common stock. tt Id.
Against this backdrop of shifting capital structures and
ownership interests, on April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a three
count Complaint in this Court against both the Individual
Defendants and Fund Defendants. Count I alleges breach of
fiduciary duty directly and derivatively against the Individual
Defendants; Count II alleges, directly and derivatively against
the Stilwell Fund Defendants, aiding and abetting the Individual
Defendants' breaches of fiduciary duty; and Count III alleges
Unjust Enrichment both directly and derivatively against the so-
called Conflicted Insiders (certain Individual Defendants) and the
Stilwell Fund Defendants. Id. at 40. Plaintiff seeks damages
personally. on behalf of the putative shareholder class, and on
behalf of Wheeler. Id. at 41-42. Plaintiff also seeks equitable
relief, namely an injunction prohibiting further interest payment
on the Notes in discounted D Stock shares. Id.
On June 10, 2024, both the Individual Defendants and Fund
Defendants filed separate, though interrelated, motions to dismiss
Plaintiff's Complaint. ECF Nos . 23 , 24 , 26 . In addition to seeking
dismissal of all counts under Rule 12(b)(6) for failure to state a
claim. both sets of defendants seek dismissal under Rule 23.1 for
failure to satisfy the prerequisites to bringing a derivative
claim, and the Fund Defendants advance a challenge to this Court's
personal jurisdiction under Rule 12(b)(2). ECF No. 27, at 15; Fed.
R. Civ. P. 12(b)(6); Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(2); Fed. R. Civ. P.
23.1. After receiving a briefing extension, on July 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a consolidated response in opposition to the
motions to dismiss. ECF No. 32. On August 15, 2024, both the
Individual and Fund Defendants filed separate reply briefs in
support of their respective motions to dismiss. ECF Nos. 37, 38.
The matter is thus fully briefed and ripe for disposition.
II. LEGAL STANDARD
A, Personal Jurisdiction Rule 12(b) (2)
Rule 12(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure permits
an action to be dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction. Fed.
R. Civ. P. 12(b)(2). When resolving a Rule 12(b)(2) motion, a
district court undertakes a two-step analysis. First, a reviewing
court looks to whether personal jurisdiction is authorized by state
law. Mitrano v. Hawes, 377 F.3d 402, 406 (4th Cir. 2004). If
personal jurisdiction is authorized, then the district court
determines whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction comports
with the constitutional requirements of due process. Id. Because
Virginia's "long-arm n statute extends personal jurisdiction to the
constitutionally permissible limits of the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the statutory inquiry merges with the
constitutional inquiry. // Consulting Eng'rs Corp. v. Geometric
Ltd., 561 F.3d 273, 277 (4th Cir. 2009).
Controlling this inquiry, the Due Process Clause requires
\\ \ minimum contacts' with the forum so that the exercise of
jurisdiction 'does not offend traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice. t n Hawkins v. i-TV Digitalis Tavkozlesi zrt..
935 F.3d 211, 228 (4th Cir. 2019) (quoting International Shoe Co.
V. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 316 (1945)). The nature and frequency
of the forum-state contacts required to establish minimum
contacts n depends on whether the case involves the exercise of
specific" or "general" jurisdiction. Fidrych v. Marriott Int'l,
Inc. , 952 F.3d 124, 131 (4th Cir. 2020). General jurisdiction
permits the reviewing court to hear any and all claims against the
defendant; therefore, to exercise general jurisdiction, a defendant
must have contacts with the forum jurisdiction that are \\ SO
constant and pervasive as to render it essentially at home in the
forum State. tf Daimler AG v. Bauman, 571 U.S. 117, 122 (2014)
(quoting Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown, 564 U.S.
915, 919 (2011) ) . If the defendant does not have sufficient
contacts to be "at home" in the forum, the district court may
exercise specific jurisdiction if the defendant has "purposefully
established minimum contacts in the forum State n such that the
defendant u should reasonably anticipate being haled into court
there. u Perdue Foods LLC v. BRF S.A., 814 F.3d 185, 188-89 (4th
cir. 2016). This "minimum contacts" analysis is "not mechanical, It
and a reviewing court must weigh "the totality of the facts n before
it. Id. (quoting Universal Leather, LLC v. Koro AR, S.A., 773 F.3d
553, 561 (4th Cir. 2014)). To determine whether specific
jurisdiction lies in the forum state, a district court considers
(1) the extent to which the defendant purposefully availed itself
of the privilege of conducting activities in the State; (2) whether
the plaintiffs' claims arise out of those activities directed at
the State; and (3) whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction
would be constitutionally reasonable. n Id. (quoting ALS Scan,
Inc. V. Digital Serv. Consultants, Inc., 293 F.3d 707, 712 (4th
Cir. 2002)) . The plaintiff must prevail on each prong. Consulting
Eng'rs. 561 F.3d at 278.
Incorporating these background legal principles, when a
district court reviews a pretrial challenge to personal
jurisdiction without conducting an evidentiary hearing, as here,
the plaintiff need only make a prima facie showing of personal
jurisdiction. Carefirst of Maryland, Inc, v. Carefirst Pregnancy
Centers, Inc., 334 F.3d 390, 396 (4th Cir. 2003) (citing Combs v.
Bakker, 886 F.2d 673, 676 (4th Cir. 1989)). In considering whether
a plaintiff has made the requisite showing, reviewing courts must
construe all relevant pleading allegations in the light most
favorable to the plaintiff, assume credibility, and draw the most
favorable inferences for the existence of jurisdiction. Brooks
V . Motsenbocker Advanced Devs., Inc., 242 F. App'x 889, 890 (4th
Cir. 2007) (citing Combs, 886 F.2d at 676).
If the plaintiff has made a prima facie showing, the defendant
must present a compelling case that the presence of some other
considerations would render jurisdiction [so] unreasonable as to
offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.
Medmarc Cas. Ins. Co. v. GD Grp. USA Co., 669 F. Supp. 3d 555, 560-
u motion papers, supporting legal memoranda, [and] the allegations
in the complaint. // Consulting Eng'rs, 561 F.3d at 276; see 5B Alan
Wright & Arthur Miller, Fed. P. & Proc. § 1351, at 305 (3d ed.
2004) .
B. Failure to State a Claim - Rule 12(b) (6)
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b) (6) provides for the
dismissal of a cause of action based on the plaintiff's failure to
state a claim upon which relief can be granted. // Fed. R. Civ. P.
12(b)(6). A motion to dismiss pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6) must be
read in conjunction with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 8(a)(2),
which requires only \\ a short and plain statement of the claim
showing that the pleader is entitled to relief" so as to "give the
defendant fair notice of what the . . . claim is and the grounds
upon which it rests. n Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544,
555 (2007) (quoting Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41, 47 (1957)).
Fair notice is provided by setting forth enough facts to >\ raise a
right to relief above the speculative level on the assumption that
all the allegations in the complaint are true (even if doubtful in
fact). tt Id. at 555, 570.
To survive a motion to dismiss under Rule 12(b) (6) , a
complaint "must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted as
true, to 'state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face. / n
Ashcroft V. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 (2009) (quoting Twombly, 550
U.S. at 570) . The plausibility standard is not akin to a
'probability requirement,' but it asks for more than a sheer
possibility n that a defendant is liable. Id. (quoting Twombly,
550 U.S. at 556) . Moreover, neither w [tjhreadbare recitals of the
elements of a cause of action. supported by mere conclusory
statements, tt nor \\ unadorned, the-defendant-unlawfully-harmed-me
accusation [s] H suffice to meet the plausibility requirement. Id.
(citing Twombly, 550 U.S, at 555).
Because a motion to dismiss tests the sufficiency of a
complaint without resolving factual disputes. a district court
\\ \ must accept as true all of the factual allegations contained in
the complaint' and 'draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the
plaintiff. / n Kensington Volunteer Fire Dep't, Inc, v. Montgomery
Cnty. , Md. , 684 F.3d 462, 467 (4th Cir. 2012) (quoting E. I. du Pont
de Nemours & Co. v. Kolon Indus., Inc., 637 F.3d 435, 440 (4th Cir.
2011)). Although the truth of the well-pled facts is presumed,
district courts are not bound by the "legal conclusions drawn from
the facts" and "need not accept as true unwarranted inferences,
unreasonable conclusions, or arguments. u E. Shore Mkts., Inc, v.
J.D. Assocs. Ltd. P'ship, 213 F.3d 175, 180 (4th Cir. 2000) .
C. Derivative Action Requirements - Rule 23.1
Rule 23.1 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure applies when
\\ one or more shareholders or members of a corporation" bring a
derivative action to enforce a right that the corporation
.
may properly assert but has failed to enforce. n Fed. R. Civ. P.
23.1(a). Rule 23.1 provides, among other requirements, that the
complaint must be verified and must . . . state with particularity:
(A) any effort by the plaintiff to obtain the desired action from
the directors or comparable authority and, if necessary, from the
shareholders or members; and (B) the reasons for not obtaining the
action or not making the effort. // Fed. R. Civ. P. 23.1(b) (3) .
III. DISCUSSION
In their respective motions, the Individual and Fund
Defendants advance numerous grounds for dismissal. Because federal
courts generally must first resolve questions of jurisdiction
before addressing the merits of a case, the Court first addresses
the Stilwell Fund Defendants' challenge to personal jurisdiction.
Sinochem Int'l Co. v. Malaysia Int'l Shipping Corp., 549 U.S. 422,
430-31 (2007) (citing Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,
523 U.S. 83, 93-102 (1998)).
A. Personal Jurisdiction over the Stilwell Fund Defendants
The Stilwell Fund Defendants seek dismissal of the Complaint
under Rule 12(b)(2), arguing that Plaintiff cannot establish that
the Fund Defendants have sufficient contacts with Virginia to
subject them to personal jurisdiction in the state. ECF No. 27,
at 15. The parties appear to agree that general jurisdiction is
not present, so the dispute centers on whether Plaintiff has made
a prima facie showing of specific jurisdiction over the Stilwell
Fund Defendants to survive the jurisdictional challenge.
Carefirst, 334 F.3d at 396.
As previously explained, for a district court to exercise
specific personal jurisdiction, the defendant must have
W purposefully established minimum contacts in the forum State such
that it should reasonably anticipate being haled into court there. u
Perdue Foods, 814 F.3d at 189. When analyzing a defendant's
contacts with the forum state, a reviewing court considers (1)
the extent to which the defendant purposefully availed itself of
the privilege of conducting activities in the State; (2) whether
the plaintiffs' claims arise out of those activities directed at
the State; and (3) whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction
would be constitutionally reasonable. n Id. (internal citations
omitted). The plaintiff must prevail on each prong to demonstrate
that jurisdiction is proper. Id.
Applying this tripartite test, the Court first considers the
extent to which the Stilwell Fund Defendants have purposefully
availed themselves of the privilege of conducting activities in
Virginia. While the "purposeful availment" requirement is not
\\ susceptible of mechanical application. tf Consulting Eng'rs, 561
F.3d at 278, district courts addressing a business-related suit
consider the following factors: (1) \\ whether the defendant
maintains offices or agents in the forum state; n (2) \\ whether the
defendant owns property in the forum state; n (3) w whether the
defendant reached into the forum state to solicit or initiate
business; // (4) \\ whether the defendant deliberately engaged in
significant or long-term business activities in the forum state; //
(5) \\ whether the parties contractually agreed that the law of the
forum state would govern disputes; It (6) \\ whether the defendant made
in-person contact with the resident of the forum in the forum state
regarding the business relationship; // (7) \\ the nature, quality and
extent of the parties' communications about the business being
transacted;" and (8) "whether the performance of contractual duties
was to occur within the forum. // Id. (internal citations omitted).
Considering the first factor (maintaining offices), while the
Stilwell Fund Defendants do not maintain offices in Virginia,
Plaintiff alleges that the Stilwell Fund Defendants are all
controlled and managed by Stilwell. ECF No. 1, at 2. In his
capacity as a Wheeler director, Stilwell routinely attends Wheeler
board meetings in Virginia Beach, VA, Wheeler's principal place of
business. Id. However, neither Stilwell nor the Stilwell Fund
Defendants are based in Virginia, and Plaintiff does not allege
that Stilwell should be considered an "agent tt of the Stilwell Fund
Defendants in this context, so this first factor modestly counsels
against finding purposeful availment. Addressing the second factor
(property ownership), it is undisputed that the Stilwell Fund
Defendants do not own physical property in Virginia, which has
historically been the focus of reviewing courts addressing this
factor. See Base Metal Trading, Ltd, v. QJSC, 283 F.3d 208, 213
(4th Cir. 2002) . However, the Stilwell Fund Defendants are alleged
(with Stilwell personally) to own over 80% of Wheeler's common
stock (ECF No. 1, at 26-27), and Wheeler is headquartered in
Virginia while incorporated in Maryland. See Lee Graham Shopping
Ctr. V. Kirsch, No. I:13cvl89, 2013 WL 12097824, at *1 (E.D. Va.
May 2, 2013) (finding personal jurisdiction where the defendant
did not own physical property in Virginia but claimed an ownership
interest in a Virginia LLC, and observing that the act of claiming
an ownership interest in a closely-held Virginia business satisfies
this Court that it may exercise personal jurisdiction over the
entities"). This second factor thus lightly counsels in favor of
finding personal jurisdiction.
As to the third factor (soliciting business), Plaintiff
alleges that the Stilwell Fund Defendants invested in Wheeler and
then engaged in a year-long proxy fight over the composition of
Wheeler's Board to appoint their own directors, implement their
own financial plans. and ultimately profit on their investment.
ECF No. 1, at 2-7. Indeed, the Fund Defendants are alleged to have
purchased the majority of the available Notes (for nearly $25
million), ultimately amassing a majority ownership stake Wheeler,
a company with its principal place of business in Virginia. Id.
at 15 . These facts are plainly indicative of the Stilwell Fund
Defendants' initiation of business in Virginia (through their
extensive engagement with and investment in a company with its
principal place of business in Virginia), and counsel in favor of
finding minimum contacts as Plaintiff has made a showing that the
Fund Defendants' Wheeler transactions form the basis of this suit.
Id. at 37-41; see Universal Leather, 773 F.3d at 562-63 (noting
that a corporate defendant's business meetings and ongoing business
dealings with the plaintiff counseled in favor of finding that the
plaintiff had made a prima facie showing of personal jurisdiction
in the state where the plaintiff was headquartered).
Reviewing the fourth factor (business activities), it is
evident that the Stilwell-controlled Fund Defendants have
deliberately engaged in significant or long-term business
activities with respect to the Virginia-headquartered Wheeler. As
noted, over the span of five years, Stilwell and the Stilwell Fund
Defendants allegedly accumulated a predominant ownership stake in
Wheeler, won numerous seats on the board of directors, and have
implemented various financial plans for the Company's capital
structure, not to mention the allegation that one Stilwell Fund
Defendant received two multi-million-dollar investments from
Wheeler. Id. at 24-25; see Alterseekers, Inc, v. BrandForce SF,
LLC, No. CV 12-5392, 2015 WL 5719759, at *5-7 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 29,
2015) (observing that personal jurisdiction is appropriately
extended to a corporation without any contacts with the forum state
when the corporation is sufficiently alleged to be so dominated
by an individual // who is subject to personal jurisdiction in the
forum state) ; see also Loc. 875 I.B.T. Pension Fund v. Pollack,
992 F. Supp. 545, 557 {E.D.N.Y. 1998) {concluding that the
plaintiffs had made a prima facie showing of personal jurisdiction
over a foreign investment firm in part because personal
jurisdiction existed over the individual manager of the investment
firm) . This fourth factor thus counsels in favor of finding minimum
contacts.^ Id. at 37-41. And after considering the remaining four
factors and drawing the most favorable inferences for the
existence of jurisdiction, n Brooks, 242 F. App'x at 890, the Court
finds that the Stilwell Fund Defendants have purposefully availed
themselves of the privilege of conducting activities in Virginia
through establishing sufficient contacts with the state. 10
® The Court has weighed the fifth factor (governing law) and recognizes that
the investment agreement between Wheeler and one of the Stilwell Fund
Defendants did not select Virginia law to govern disputes. Considering the
sixth factor (in-person contacts) and drawing reasonable inferences in favor
of jurisdiction, Stilwell, allegedly the controlling manager of the Stilwell
Fund Defendants, has routinely made in-person contact with Wheeler in Virgina
regarding his investment in Wheeler, through, among other activities,
attending Wheeler board meetings. Regarding the seventh factor
(communication) , when drawing the most favorable inferences for the existence
of jurisdiction, the Court may infer that there has been communication between
the Stilwell Fund Defendants and Wheeler regarding the Stilwell Fund
Defendants' purchase of wheeler's debt and equity and their receipt of an
investment from Virginia-headquarteredWheeler. Brooks, 242 F. App'x at 890.
The final factor (location of performance of contractual duties) also cuts
in favor of finding purposeful availment as the Stilwell Fund Defendants
concede that the agreement governing Wheeler's investment in one of their
funds "contemplate[s] some performance in Virginia." ECF No. 27, at 21.
The Court next addresses the second requirement to exercise
specific personal jurisdiction - whether Plaintiff's claims arise
out of the Stilwell Fund Defendants' activities directed at
Virginia. Plaintiff's claims against the Stilwell Fund Defendants
can be summarized as follows. Count II alleges that as entities
controlled and managed by Stilwell, the Stilwell Fund Defendants
aided and abetted the Board and management's breach of fiduciary
duties by purchasing substantial amounts of Wheeler's Notes and
receiving shares of D Stock, thereby facilitating the increase in
Stilwell's ownership of Wheeler at the expense of some common
stockholders. ECF No. 1, at 39. Count III alleges that the
Stilwell Fund Defendants were unjustly enriched by their receipt
of discounted shares of D Stock, discounts on the Notes' common
stock conversion price, and \\ at least $7 million in investments u
by Wheeler. Id. at 40.
securities in a corporation formed in Delaware 'impliedly consents' to
subject himself to Delaware's . . . jurisdiction on any cause of action."
Shaffer, 433 U.S. at 216 (emphasis added). There, the appellants had
"nothing to do with the State of Delaware" besides accepting a directorship
in a company incorporated in Delaware, and the Plaintiff did not allege "any
act related to his cause of action as having taken place in Delaware." Id.
at 213. By contrast, the Stilwell Fund Defendants are alleged to have
robustly engaged with the Virginia-headquartered Wheeler by amassing a
predominant ownership stake in the Company, engaging (by way of Stilwell)
in a sustained proxy fight to change the composition of Wheeler's board, and
accepting a multi-million-dollar investment from Wheeler, memorialized in
an investment agreement which, the Fund Defendants concede, "contemplate[s]
some performance in Virginia." ECF No. 27, at 21. Additionally, as
discussed further below, the Stilwell Fund Defendants' preceding engagement
with Wheeler does form the basis of Plaintiff's suit.
Each of the preceding claims arises out of the Stilwell Fund
Defendants' activities directed at Virginia because, drawing the
most favorable inferences for the existence of jurisdiction, their
investments in Wheeler facilitated the Individual Defendants'
alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The Stilwell Fund Defendants,
through their Notes ownership, received the D Stock-based interest
payments, one of the core decisions that Plaintiff challenges in
his breach of fiduciary duty claim. Brooks, 242 F. App'x at 890;
Id. at 38-39. The Individual Defendants plausibly engaged in the
alleged breaches in Virginia, where Wheeler has its principal place
of business and where its Board presumably convenes. Additionally,
as the Stilwell Fund Defendants acknowledge, they did to some
extent solicit a multi-million-dollar investment from the Virginia-
headquartered Wheeler by sending marketing materials to the Company
and entering into an investment agreement that contemplates some
performance in Virginia. ECF No. 1, at 40. Indeed, this latter
transaction serves as the partial factual predicate for Plaintiff's
third count alleging unjust enrichment. ECF No. 1, at 40.
Therefore, when viewed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff,
the foregoing claims arise out of the Stilwell Fund Defendants'
activities directed at the Virginia-headquartered Wheeler. Brooks,
242 F. App'x at 890.
In addressing the third requirement for the exercise of
specific personal jurisdiction whether exercising personal
jurisdiction would be constitutionally reasonable the Court
considers the following factors: (1) the burden on the Stilwell
Fund Defendants of litigating in Virginia; (2) Virginia's interest
in adjudicating the instant dispute; (3) Plaintiff's interest in
obtaining convenient and effective relief from this Court; (4) the
shared interest of the states in obtaining efficient resolution of
disputes; and (5) the interests of the states in furthering
substantive social policies. Consulting Eng'rs, 561 F.3d at 279
{citing Burger King, 471 U.S. at 477) .
Considering these factors, the Stilwell Fund Defendants
acknowledge that the burden of litigating in Virginia is
concededly small, // and thus the first factor counsels in favor of
finding jurisdiction reasonable. ECF No. 27, at 24. Addressing
the second factor, Virginia has a legitimate interest in
adjudicating disputes arising out of the corporate activities of a
publicly traded company headquartered in Virginia. See Carfax,
Inc. V. Accu-Trade, LLC, No. I:21cv361, 2022 WL 657976, at *9 (E.D.
Va. March 4, 2022) (finding that Virginia had a legitimate interest
in adjudicating the dispute in part because the company at issue
was headquartered and principally operating in Virginia").
Considering the third factor, Plaintiff does have an interest in
obtaining relief from this Court — which is, of course, located
near Wheeler's principal place of business — to prevent the filing
of a separate suit against the Stilwell Fund Defendants that could
produce a judgment inconsistent with this Court's disposition of
the interrelated allegations against the Individual Defendants who
have not contested this Court's personal jurisdiction. See
Mussetter Distrib., Inc, v. DBI Beverage Inc., Civ. No. 09-1442,
2009 WL 1992356, at *5 (E.D. Cal. July 8, 2009) {"Ultimately, the
adjudication of th[e] common questions in a single forum will
promote judicial economy, conserve the parties' resources, and
avoid inconsistent judgments — all in furtherance of the interests
of justice.")
Finally, the Court's resolution of the instant dispute
promotes efficiency by avoiding the delays associated with case
transfer or refiling of dispositive motions that are currently
fully briefed, and the parties have not addressed whether another
state may have a greater interest in vindicating any social
policies implicated by this securities litigation. See In re
John's Overtime Litig., 877 F.3d 756, 762 (7th Cir. 2017)
("Avoiding duplicative litigation is desirable to prevent the
economic waste . . . [that] would have an adverse effect on the
prompt and efficient administration of justice.") (internal
quotation marks omitted).
■k * *
In sum, after applying the preceding three-part framework for
review, viewing the facts in the light most favorable to Plaintiff,
and drawing all reasonable inferences in favor of jurisdiction,
the Court concludes that Plaintiff has made a prima facie showing
sufficient to survive the Stilwell Fund Defendants' jurisdictional
challenge. The exercise of specific personal jurisdiction over
the Stilwell Fund Defendants is thus appropriate at this stage of
the pretrial proceedings. Consulting Eng'rs, 561 F.3d at 277. To
counter this prima facie showing and avoid the exercise of personal
jurisdiction. the Stilwell Fund Defendants must present a
compelling case that the \\ presence of some other considerations
would render jurisdiction [so] unreasonable t! as to \\ offend
traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice. u
Medmarc, 669 F. Supp. 3d at 560-61. They have not identified any
other considerations that would render jurisdiction so
unreasonable, and thus the Fund Defendants' argument for personal
jurisdiction-based dismissal under Rule 12(b)(2) is DENIED.
B. Individual Defendants' Motion to Dismiss
Having resolved the sole jurisdictional challenge, the Court
now turns to the merits of the Individual Defendants' motion to
dismiss. ECF No. 25. Plaintiff's first count alleges breach of
fiduciary duty directly and derivatively against the Individual
Defendants. ECF No. 1, at 37. In Count I, Plaintiff claims that
the Individual Defendants each a Wheeler director except for
Franklin, the CEO — breached their fiduciary duties owed to the
Company, to Plaintiff, and to the putative Class, 13 Id. In Count
III, Plaintiff alleges unjust enrichment directly and derivatively
against certain Individual Defendants (the so-called w Conflicted
Insiders"), namely directors Stilwell, Borrack, Campbell, Poskon,
Parisi, and CEO Franklin. Id. at 40.
The Individual Defendants seek dismissal on three grounds.
First, they argue that Plaintiff cannot satisfy Rule 23.1 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure with respect to his derivative
claims in Counts I and III because he failed to make an adequate
[litigation] demand tt on Wheeler before filing suit. ECF No. 25,
at 16, 23. And even if Plaintiff did make an adequate demand, the
Individual Defendants maintain, Plaintiff does not fairly represent
the interests of other similarly situated shareholders as required
2022 or 2023 to repurchase Series D shares prior to the Redemption Date,
despite the Company having adequate cash on hand and available assets to
make such an offer to Series D shareholders, including at least $7 million
in cash that was instead invested in [one Fund Defendant] , which resulted
in the severe dilution and reduction in the price of Wheeler's common stock."
ECF No. 1, at 38. Second, the Individual Defendants authorized Wheeler to
pay interest to Noteholders in discounted D Stock shares instead of available
cash, which increased the Company's exposure to D Stock redemptions in
addition to diluting and reducing the price of Wheeler's common stock, Id.
at 38.
under Rule 23.1 to bring a derivative claim. Id. Second, to the
extent Plaintiff purports to bring the Count I breach of fiduciary
duty claim directly {thereby avoiding Rule 23.1's derivative suit
requirements), such claim must be dismissed as it cannot form the
basis for a direct cause of action. Id. at 25. Third, the
Individual Defendants separately maintain that Counts I and III
fail to state a claim under Rule 12(b)(6). Id. at 29. The Court
addresses each contention in turn.
1. Rule 23.1
a. Demand Letter
As previously noted. Rule 23.1 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure authorizes a shareholder to bring a derivative action
to enforce a right that the corporation or association may properly
assert but has failed to enforce. tt Fed. R. Civ. P. 23.1 (a) .
However, Rule 23.1 requires that the named plaintiff fairly and
adequately represent[s] the interests of shareholders or members
who are similarly situated in enforcing the right of the
corporation. tt Id. Additionally, Rule 23.1(b) provides heightened
pleading standards, which require that the complaint state with
particularity . . . (A) any effort by the plaintiff to obtain the
desired action from the directors or comparable authority and, if
necessary, from the shareholders or members; and (B) the reasons
for not obtaining the action or not making the effort. tt Fed. R.
Civ. P. 23.1(b)(3).
Because Wheeler is incorporated under Maryland law, Maryland
law defines the standard for evaluating the sufficiency of the
Plaintiff's efforts to \\ obtain the desired action from the
directors or comparable authority, II known as the "pre-suit demand //
requirement of Rule 23.1(b) (3) . See Star v, TI Oldfield Dev. , LLC,
962 F.3d 117, 134 (4th Cir. 2020) ("In evaluating a derivative
claim. a federal court must determine the adequacy of pleading
under federal law but determine the sufficiency of the pre-suit
demand under the substantive law of the state of incorporation." )
(citing Kamen v. Kemper Fin. Servs., Inc., 500 U.S. 90, 108-09
(1991)).
Drawing on this legal background, the Individual Defendants
argue that Plaintiff failed to make the requisite pre-suit demand
on Wheeler, and that the demand requirement was not excused under
the circumstances of this suit. ECF No. 25, at 16. Before bringing
a derivative suit in Maryland, the shareholder "must either make a
demand on the board of directors that the corporation bring the
suit, or show that demand is excused as futile. // Bender v.
Schwartz, 172 Md. App. 648, 666, 917 A.2d 142, 152 (Md. Ct. App.
2007) . Once a demand is made, the corporation's board of directors
must investigate the allegations in the demand and \\ determine
whether pursuing the demanded litigation is in the best interests
of the corporation. H Id.; Werbowsky v. Collomb, 362 Md. 581, 602,
766 A.2d 123, 135 (2001) {"[T]he complaining stockholder must make
demand upon the corporation itself to commence the action.")
Maryland's demand requirement is "strictly construed" and
frequently leads to the dismissal of derivative actions. JFURTI,
LLC V. Forum Partners Investment Management, LLC, No. 16 Civ. 8633,
2017 WL 1753487, at *8 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 27, 2017) (applying Maryland
law and granting a motion to dismiss based on an insufficient
demand letter); see also Burt Shearer Trustee v. Adams, No.
3:09cv991, 2010 WL 3782162, at *5 (M.D. Tenn. Sept. 21, 2010)
(same). For a communication to constitute a Rule 23.1 demand, the
communication at a minimum must identify the alleged wrongdoers,
describe the factual basis of the wrongful acts and the harm caused
to the corporation, and request remedial relief. Bender, 172 Md.
App. at 669, 917 A.2d at 154 (citing Allison on Behalf of General
Motors Corporation v. General Motors Corp., 604 F. Supp. 1106, 1117
(D. Del. 1985)) . In articulating the requirements for a
communication to constitute a demand, the Bender Court further
noted that [i]n most instances, the shareholder need not specify
his legal theory, every fact in support of that theory, or the
precise quantum of damages, before concluding that [e]ach claim
must be articulated specifically enough to give directors a fair
opportunity to initiate the action requested. Bender, 172 Md.
App. at 670, 917 A.2d at 154.
Measured against the requirements of Maryland law, Plaintiff's
letters to the Wheeler Board are fatally devoid of any reference
to prospective litigation and legal claims for corporate management
to consider bringing on behalf of Wheeler. See ECF No. 33-1. For
example, on April 11, 2023, Plaintiff sent a letter to the Board
of Directors expressing his concerns that management and the Board
are on a path toward pronounced value destruction. adding that he
hopes the Board and management understand the importance of
ceasing any issuance of deeply discounted Series D or Series B
preferred stock to holders of the Convertible Notes. ECF No. 33-
1.
Wholly absent from Plaintiff's preceding critiques of the
Company's capital decisions is any mention of a legal action that
the Wheeler directors should consider pursuing on behalf of the
Company, which is the purpose behind the pre-suit demand
requirement. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 602, 766 A.2d at 135 {" [T]he
complaining stockholder must make demand upon the corporation
itself to commence the action.") (emphasis added); Bender, 172 Md.
App. at 669, 917 A. 2d at 154 ("Each claim must be articulated
specifically enough to give directors a fair opportunity to
initiate the action requested.") (emphasis added); Mona v. Mona
Elec. Grp., Inc., 176 Md. App. 672, 706, 934 A.2d 450, 469-70 (Md.
Ct. Spec. App. 2007) (dismissing derivative claim because the
plaintiff did not demand, prior to filing suit, that the Board of
Directors initiate litigation on behalf of the company"); Oliveira
V. Sugarman, 226 Md. App. 524, 538-39, 130 A.3d 1085, 1094 (Md.
Ct. Spec. App. 2016), aff ^ d, 451 Md. 208, 152 A.3d 728 (2017)
(requiring derivative plaintiffs to at the outset, seek a
corporate decision on whether to maintain a lawsuit, a prerequisite
known as the demand requirement") (emphasis added); Hoecker v.
Boynton Ocean, LLC, No. 05-80396-civ, 2005 WL 8156865, at *5 (S.D.
Fla. Sept. 19, 2005) (applying Maryland law and finding that the
letter at issue did not satisfy Rule 23.1's demand requirement
because [t]he letter makes no threat of legal action stemming from
any alleged wrongdoing").
Plaintiff's letters' omission of any prospective legal claims
for the directors to consider bringing on behalf of Wheeler is not
merely a cosmetic deficiency, nor does the pre-suit demand
requirement exalt form over substance. Rather, as the Maryland
Court of Appeals explained in Werbowsky, the "function of the
demand doctrine i [s] delimiting the respective powers of the
individual shareholder and of the directors to control corporate
litigation. [which] clearly is a matter of substance, not
procedure. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 601, 766 A.2d at 134 (internal
quotation marks omitted). To that end, Maryland law requires that
[e]ach claim must be articulated specifically enough [in the
demand] to give directors a fair opportunity to initiate the action
requested by the shareholder, a decision that directors often make
after receiving the advice of a special litigation committee of
independent directors" on whether to pursue claims against alleged
wrongdoers. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 619, 766 A.2d at 144; Bender,
172 Md. App. at 669, 917 A.2d at 154. By failing to notify the
directors of his prospective derivative claims. Plaintiff short-
circuited the corporate machinery designed to promote "meaningful
pre-litigation alternative dispute resolution. Werbowsky, 362
Md. at 619, 766 A.2d at 144. Indeed, this right of the directors
to first investigate and consider a derivative suit derives from a
core principle of corporate law - that [gjenerally, the business
and affairs of a corporation. including the decision to institute
litigation. are managed under the direction of its board of
directors. Bender, 172 Md. App. at 665, 917 A.2d at 152.
In his arguments opposing Rule 23.1-based dismissal. Plaintiff
first claims that he did make sufficient demands on previous
Wheeler boards comprised of different directors. ECF No. 32, at
27 . But this qualification does not change the fact that (1)
Plaintiff's Complaint does not allege that he ever made a pre-suit
demand on any Wheeler Board and (2) Plaintiffs' letters to previous
Wheeler directors remain substantively deficient by failing to
articulate the legal claims that the Board should consider bringing
on behalf of the corporation. See ECF No. 1.
Next, Plaintiff argues that his letters do assert that the
Board breached its fiduciary duties by, among other actions,
issuing shares of D Stock as interest payment on the Notes. ECF
No. 32, at 19-20. However, Plaintiff's expression of his view that
a corporate decision breached a fiduciary duty is not the
equivalent of a shareholder . . . alleg[ing] and prov[ing] that
he, she, or it requested the directors to sue in the name of the
corporation. as required under Maryland law. Werbowsky, 362 Md.
at 621, 766 A.2d at 145 {emphasis added) . This demand prerequisite
requires that each claim be articulated specifically enough to
give directors a fair opportunity to initiate the action. which
in this case would have also required Plaintiff to articulate his
derivative claim for unjust enrichment. Bender, 172 Md. App. at
669, 917 A.2d at 154; see Mona, 176 Md. App. at 706, 934 A.2d at
469-70 (dismissing a derivative claim where the demand letter
failed to give the company notice of all of the plaintiff's bases
for litigation) ; see also JFURTI, LLC v. F. Partners, 2017 WL
1753487 at *8 (applying Maryland law and dismissing derivative suit
for failure to satisfy pre-suit demand requirement). Indeed,
insofar as Plaintiff's letters request any action. it is not the
initiation of a lawsuit he seeks, but rather a genuine,
constructive conversation to discuss Wheeler's financial position
in the hope that the Board would implement Plaintiff's business
plan for buying back outstanding D Stock. See ECF No. 33-1, at 4.
In a final effort to combat Rule 23.1 dismissal. Plaintiff
cites JFURTI, LLC v. Singal for the proposition that he did not
need to u raise every cause of action he now alleges in the
Complaint. u No. 17 Civ. 7206, 2018 WL 6332907, at *9 (S.D.N.Y.
Nov. 12, 2018). But the plaintiff in JFURTI had U served a written
demand on each member of the Board of Directors . . . [requesting
that they] take legal action to recover damages and obtain relief
. . for the fraud [and] breaches of fiduciary duty n in addition
to several other legal claims. JFURTI, LLC V. Singal, No. 17 Civ.
7206, ECF No. 36, at *2-3. Plaintiff's letters here are
meaningfully different from the JFURTI plaintiff's letters' (and
complaint's) express and expansive request for the initiation of
legal action, as Plaintiff's letters here not only fail to request
any legal action on behalf of Wheeler, but his Complaint does not
even claim that a litigation demand was submitted. See ECF No. 1.
Instead, Plaintiff's Complaint only describes the Wheeler
directors' alleged conflicts of interest that supposedly justified
Plaintiff's decision not to submit a demand letter. maintaining
that he has not made a demand on the Demand Board to investigate
or pursue the derivative claims herein because demand is excused
as futile. tt ECF No. 1, at 30.
At bottom. none of Plaintiff's letters to the Wheeler Board
(when considered individually or together) meet the requirement
for a pre-suit litigation demand letter under Rule 23.1, and thus
Plaintiff's derivative claims may only survive dismissal if demand
was excused as \s futile" under Maryland law. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at
602, 766 A.2d at 135 .
b. Futility Exception to the Demand Requirement
The pre-suit demand requirement is subject to one \\ well-
recognized H exception — that prior demand is not required when such
demand would be futile. // Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 602, 766 A.2d at
135; Laidlaw v. Beneficial Bancorp, Inc., No. 24-C-17-1057, 2017
WL 8942454, at *3 {Md. Cir. Ct. Aug. 08, 2017) ("Futility is the
only exception to Maryland's demand requirement."). However, this
futility exception is unusually exacting under Maryland law. //
JFURTI, LLC V. F. Partners, 2017 WL 1753487, at *8. In Werbowsky,
the Maryland Court of Appeals explained the futility exception in
great detail, observing that demand futility is:
a very limited exception, to be applied only when the
allegations or evidence clearly demonstrate, in a very
particular manner, either that (1) a demand, or a delay
in awaiting a response to a demand, would cause
irreparable harm to the corporation, or (2) a majority
of directors are so personally and directly conflicted
or committed to the decision in dispute that they cannot
reasonably be expected to respond to a demand in good
faith and within the ambit of the business judgment rule.
Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 602, 766 A.2d at 144. Consistent with this
exacting standard, demand is not excused under Maryland law simply
because \\ a majority of the directors approved or participated in
some way in the challenged transaction or decision. // Id. at 618,
143. Underscoring the "narrowness" of Maryland's demand futility
exception, the Maryland Court of Appeals has explained that even a
director that expects to derive a personal benefit from a
corporate transaction — and is therefore not disinterested IS
not necessarily so personally and directly conflicted or committed
to the decision in dispute that they cannot reasonably be expected
to respond to a demand in good faith and within the ambit of the
business judgment rule. Oliveira v. Sugarman, 451 Md. 208, 229,
152 A.3d 728, 741 (2017) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Mindful of this exacting legal standard, the Court turns to
Plaintiff's argument that demand was futile. Plaintiff does not
claim that Werbowsky's first irreparable harm-based exception is
applicable, but instead relies on the second exception, contending
that a majority of Wheeler's directors are so personally and
directly conflicted or committed to the decision in dispute to
excuse a pre-suit demand. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 620, 766 A.2d at
144; ECF No. 1, at 30-34. Accordingly, the Court examines the
allegations against each individual director to determine whether
Plaintiff has adequately alleged that a majority are so conflicted.
To start. Plaintiff alleges that Individual Defendant-
directors Borrack and Parisi have disabling conflicts and financial
interests, a claim based on the fact that both directors are
employed by Stilwell, and thus purportedly stand to benefit
financially from Stilwell and his Funds' financial interest in the
challenged transactions (issuance of shares of D Stock and the
Notes conversion). ECF No. 1, at 32. But this type of demand
futility argument is directly undermined by the standards
articulated in Oliveira and Werbowsky, the latter opinion noting
that the demand requirement is not excused based on speculative
allegations that [directors] are conflicted or are controlled by
other conflicted persons . . . or would be hostile to the [remedial]
action. ft Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 618, 766 A.2d at 143-44.
Plaintiff's allegations of disabling conflict against Parisi and
Borrack plainly rely on impermissible speculation that such
directors could not respond to a demand in good faith because of
Stilwell's controlling influence and u the[ir] expect[ation] to
derive a personal benefit // as employees of his investment fund.
Oliveira, 451 Md. at 229, 152 A. 3d at 741 (explaining that a
u director that expects to derive a personal benefit from a
corporate transaction If is not necessarily unable to respond
reasonably to a pre-suit demand). At bottom. Plaintiff's
allegations against directors Borrack and Parisi, without more,
are insufficient to justify the \\ unusually exacting // futility
exception to the demand requirement. JFURTI, LLC V. F. Partners,
2017 WL 1753487, at *8-9.
Next, Plaintiff alleges that Individual Defendant-director
Campbell has a disabling conflict justifying the futility
exception. Plaintiff's allegation is solely premised on the fact
that Campbell owns $100,000 worth of the Notes, which represent
w the entirety of Defendant Campbell's stock ownership" in Wheeler.
ECF No. 1, at 15, 32-33. But the fact that Campbell participated
in Wheeler's Rights Offering an opportunity offered to all common
stockholders — and purchased Notes, without more, does not rise to
the level of conflict required to excuse demand as futile. Indeed,
under Maryland law, directors are w presumed to act properly and in
the best interest of the corporation . . . and their control of
corporate affairs should not be impinged based on non-specific or
speculative allegations of wrongdoing. // Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 618-
19, 766 A.2d at 144. Plaintiff offers little more than speculation
that Campbell could not reasonably respond to a litigation demand,
speculation that is based on the fact that Campbell owns Notes and
approved or participated in some way in the challenged transaction
or decision, a a type of pleading that Maryland courts have deemed
insufficient to justify the futility exception. 14 Id.
Given that the allegations against defendant directors
Borrack, Parisi, and Campbell are insufficient to demonstrate the
futility of a pre-suit demand, the Court need not reach the question
of whether Stilwell is so conflicted. Plaintiff has only alleged
that the preceding four directors are so conflicted, and since at
least three of these allegations are insufficient. Plaintiff has
not demonstrated that a majority of the Wheeler Board of seven
cannot reasonably be expected to respond to a litigation demand in
good faith. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 620, 766 A.2d at 144. And even
assuming arguendo that Stilwell so conflicted, Stilwell is only
one of seven directors, and thus Plaintiff still fails to show that
a majority of Board members were sufficiently conflicted.
Accordingly, demand was not excused in this circumstance under the
futility exception. 15
* * ■*
In summary, Plaintiff has plainly failed to submit a pre-suit
litigation demand to the Wheeler Board as required by Rule 23.1,
and Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the \\ very limited
exception // of demand futility applies here. Werbowsky, 362 Md. at
620, 766 A.2d at 144. Because Plaintiff's Complaint fails to
allege sufficient facts which, if true, would demonstrate the
futility of a demand, it is entirely appropriate to terminate the
action on a motion to dismiss. f/ Id. at 145, 620; see Weinberg ex
rel. BioMed Realty Tr., Inc, v. Gold, 838 F. Supp. 2d 355, 362 (D.
Md. 2012) (dismissing shareholder derivative suit where the
plaintiff failed to make a pre-suit demand and demand was not
excused as futile). The Individual Defendants' motion to dismiss
is thus GRANTED as to all of Plaintiff's derivative claims in
Counts I, II, and III.^^
2. Challenge to Plaintiff's Remaining Direct Claims
In addition to the Individual Defendants' successful Rule
23.1-based challenge to Plaintiff's derivative claims. the
Individual Defendants argue that Plaintiff's direct claims should
be dismissed because direct relief is not available when a
plaintiff suffers the same harm as all other shareholders. ECF
No. 25, at 29. While the Individual Defendants seek the dismissal
of "the Complaint tf on this basis and thus presumably seek
dismissal of both counts I and III alleged against the directors —
the Individual Defendants' supporting arguments and authorities
here focus on the viability of Count I, which addresses share
dilution. The Court accordingly focuses its discussion on
Plaintiff's first count, which alleges that breaches of fiduciary
duties by Wheeler's Board and management led to the severe
dilution and reduction in the price of Wheeler's common stock. ft
ECF No. 1, at 38.
Since Wheeler is incorporated in Maryland, the parties agree
that Maryland law applies to Plaintiff's direct claim alleging
breach of fiduciary duty. See Edgar v. MITE Corp., 457 U.S. 624,
645 (1982) (noting that under the \\ internal affairs" doctrine,
\\ only one State should have the authority to regulate a
corporation's internal affairs"); see also 4D-Enterprises, LLC v.
Aalto Hyperbaric Oxygen, Inc., No. 119cvl504, 2020 WL 13750856, at
*8 n.8 (E.D. Va. July 10, 2020) (finding that the law of the state
of incorporation applies to breach of fiduciary duty claims).
Under Maryland law, a harm suffered by both the shareholders and
the corporation alike can only support a shareholder derivative
claim. Oliveira; 451 Md. at 240, 152 A.3d at 747. Generally, a
decline in stock value does not give rise to a direct claim because
both the shareholders and the corporation have suffered the same
financial loss. Id. (citing Waller v. Waller, 187 Md. 185, 189-
90, 49 A.2d 449, 449-50 (1946)). Instead, to maintain a direct
action, the shareholder must allege that he has suffered \\ an injury
that is separate and distinct from any injury suffered either
directly by the corporation or indirectly by the stockholder
because of the injury to the corporation. It Oliveira, 451 Md. at
240, 152 A.3d at 748 (citing James J. Hanks, Jr., Maryland
Corporation Law § 7.12(b), at 276.18 (1994, 2015 Supp.)).
Though the foregoing principles limit the availability of
direct shareholder claims. the Maryland Court of Appeals has
recognized that share dilution in some circumstances can support
a direct claim (emphasis added). 17 Oliveira, 451 Md. at 243, 152
A.3d at 749; see St. Clair-Hibbard v. American Finance Trust, Inc.,
812 F. App'x 36, 40 (2d Cir. 2020) (interpreting Maryland law and
finding that Maryland courts have recognized ([that a dilution
claim may]) sometimes be prosecuted directly"). In explaining the
viability of a direct share dilution claim, the Oliveira Court
listed the important elements for such claim that were missing from
the plaintiff's complaint there. Oliveira thereby instructed that
a plaintiff must \> allege share dilution in their complaint. n along
with facts detailing the impact of such dilution" by W [indicating]
how much [the plaintiff's] shares were allegedly diluted, what
effect that dilution had on [the plaintiff's] voting power, if any,
or what financial loss [the plaintiff] might have suffered due to
such dilution. n Oliveira, 451 Md. at 243-44, 152 A.3d at 749-50;
see also St. Clair-Hibbard, 812 F. App'x at 40.
Applying the foregoing Oliveira standards here, Plaintiff's
first count plainly alleges share dilution, claiming that the
Board's failure to make any genuine offers ... to repurchase
Series D shares" resulted in the "severe dilution and reduction in
the price of Wheeler's common stock. ECF No. 1, at 3 7-38.
Further, Count I alleges that the decision to pay interest to
Noteholders in Series D shares caused further dilution and
reduction in the price of Wheeler's common stock. H Id. Count I
also "incorporates and realleges" all of the allegations of the
Complaint, which expressly state the degree of dilution of
Plaintiff's common shares and the attendant reduction in
Plaintiff's voting power: \\ Plaintiff . . . had his stake diluted
to 1.2 percent or less of outstanding shares, a dramatic reduction
in his ownership and voting power of approximately 90 percent or
more ● n ECF No. 1, at 6. In light of Count I's well-developed
allegations of share dilution caused by the Individual Defendant-
directors' supposed breach of fiduciary duty. the Individual
Defendants have not carried their burden to demonstrate that Count
I fails to state a direct claim. and thus have not demonstrated
that dismissal is appropriate at this stage. 18
3. 12(b)(6) Challenge to Counts I and III
Because the Individual Defendants fail to carry their burden
to demonstrate that Counts I and III cannot proceed as direct
claims, the Court next considers their 12(b)(6) argument for
dismissal, which contends that Plaintiff fails to state a
cognizable claim. ECF No. 25, at 29. To that end, the Individual
Defendants first maintain that Count I fails to state a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty because Plaintiff does not allege
sufficient facts to overcome Maryland's codified "business judgment
rule, // and fails to allege sufficient facts to overcome the
immunity extended to the Board by Wheeler's corporate charter.
Second, the Individual Defendants argue that Count III fails to
plead the facts necessary to state a claim for unjust enrichment.
The Court addresses each argument in turn.
a. Count One
i. Business Judgment Rule
The parties agree that Maryland substantive law applies to
Plaintiff's first count alleging a direct claim for breach of
fiduciary duty. See Edgar, 457 U.S. at 645. Additionally, the
parties agree that the legal duties applicable to Wheeler's Board
of Directors are set out in section 2-405.1 of the Maryland
Corporations and Associations Code {the MCA"), which provides that
a "director of a corporation shall act: (1) In good faith; (2) In
a manner the director reasonably believes to be in the best
interests of the corporation; and (3) With the care that an
ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under
similar circumstances. // MCA § 2-405.1(c). Under § 2-405.1(g), an
act of a director of a corporation is presumed to be in accordance u
with the foregoing duties enumerated in § 2-405.1(c). Section 2-
405.1 thus codifies the so-called business judgment rule. //
Oliveira, 451 Md. at 222, 152 A. 3d at 736, a presumption that in
making a business decision the directors of a corporation acted
on an informed basis. in good faith and in the honest belief that
the action taken was in the best interests of the company. //
Cherington Condo, v. Kenney, 254 Md. App. 261, 278, 272 A.3d 852,
862-63 {2022).
While it is undisputed that most Individual Defendants, as
Wheeler directors, will receive the benefit of the presumption
codified in MCA 2-405.1, the parties disagree on the
applicability of the business judgment rule at the 12(b)(6) stage
of review. Plaintiff, seeking to avoid dismissal, cites Goldstein
V. Berman for the proposition that the applicability of the
business judgment rule is largely a question of fact that is not
appropriate for determination based solely on the allegations of
the complaint. // No. Civ. 12-2507, 2014 WL 824050, at *5 (D. Md.
Feb. 28, 2014) . The Individual Defendants counter that the
Goldstein court's preceding observation is limited to the facts of
that case, and posit that the acceptance of such proposition would
improperly allow plaintiffs to routinely avoid business judgment
rule-based dismissal at the 12(b)(6) stage.
In light of this dispute. this Court has canvassed legal
authorities on the propriety of granting 12(b)(6) dismissal based
on an application of the business judgment rule. The majority of
federal courts across jurisdictions have cautioned that the
business judgment rule is highly fact dependent and. therefore,
inappropriate for consideration on a motion to dismiss. // F.D.I.C.
V . Baldini, 983 F. Supp. 2d 772, 783 (S.D. W. Va. 2013); see
Haworth, Inc, v. Janumpally, No. 5;17cv423, 2018 WL 3978173, at
*15 (E.D.N.C. Aug. 20, 2018) ("[T]he court at this juncture
declines to dismiss [the] plaintiff's remaining breach of fiduciary
duty claim . . . [t]he moving defendants do not cite binding Fourth
Circuit authority for the proposition that a plaintiff must 'plead
around the business judgment rule. / /f {internal quotations
omitted); In re Tower Air, Inc., 416 F.3d 229, 238 (3d. Cir. 2005)
("Generally speaking, we will not rely on an affirmative defense
such as the business judgment rule to trigger dismissal of a
complaint under 12(b)(6)."); Court Appointed Receiver of Lancer
Offshore, Inc, v. Citco Grp. Ltd., No. 05-60080, 2008 WL 926509,
at *5 (S.D. Fla. Mar. 31, 2008) ("[T]he Court considers it unwise
to evaluate conduct and determine whether or not it is protected
by the business judgment rule at the motion to dismiss stage.");
In re Luxottica Grp. S.p.A., Sec. Litig., 293 F. Supp. 2d 224, 238
(E.D.N.Y. 2003) (finding that the exercise of business judgment by
director defendants is a question of fact not to be considered on
a dismissal motion) ; Federal Sav. and Loan Ins. Corp. V .
Musacchio, 695 F. Supp. 1053, 1064 (N.D. Cal. 1988) {"[A] ruling on
the applicability of the business judgment rule is peculiarly a
question of fact, wholly inappropriate for consideration on a
motion to dismiss.")
Notwithstanding what has been characterized as "overwhelming
authority counselling against the application of the business
judgment rule at the 12(b) (6) stage of review, Baldini, 983 F.
Supp. 2d at 783, a minority of reviewing courts have applied such
rule at the 12 {b) (6) stage. See, e.g., Allyn v. CNL Lifestyle
Properties, Inc., No. 6:13cvl32, 2013 WL 6439383, at *4 (M.D. Fla.
Nov. 27, 2013) (applying Maryland law and granting motion to
dismiss where the plaintiff's complaint did not contain factual
allegations sufficient to rebut the presumption that the director
defendants acted in accordance with Maryland's codified business
judgment rule).
The Court, for two principal reasons, finds more persuasive
the former preponderant view cautioning against premature
application. First, reviewing courts have described application
of the business judgment rule as "highly fact intensive," and
recognize that overcoming its presumptions on the merits can be "a
near-Herculean" task. In re Tower Air, 416 F.3d at 238. Mandating
such fact intensive pleading would arguably be in tension with Rule
8 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which requires only a
short and plain statement of the claim showing that the pleader
is entitled to relief" so as to "give the defendant fair notice of
what the . . . claim is and the grounds upon which it rests.
Twombly, 550 U.S. at 555; see In re Tower Air, 416 F.3d at 236;
see also Ad Hoc Comm, of Equity Holders of Tectonic Network, Inc.
V. Wolford, 554 F. Supp. 2d 538, 556 (D. Del. 2008). Second, as
the business judgment rule is often recognized as an affirmative
defense, a motion to dismiss "generally cannot reach the merits of
an affirmative defense unless >\ all facts necessary to
the affirmative defense clearly appear on the face of the
complaint. n Goodman v. Praxair, Inc., 494 F.3d 458, 464 {4th Cir.
2007) (quoting Richmond, Fredericksburg & Potomac R.R. v. Forst, 4
F.3d 244, 250 (4th Cir. 1993)). Here, the Individual Defendants
have not demonstrated that Plaintiff's Complaint clearly
articulates all the facts necessary to reach the merits of business
judgment rule protections at this juncture, and thus have not
carried their burden to win dismissal.
In sum. to the extent the Individual Defendants seek dismissal
of Count I's remaining direct claims based on purported business
judgment rule protections. their motion to dismiss is denied on
this ground.
ii. Corporate Charter Immunity
The Court next addresses the Individual Defendants' argument
that Wheeler's corporate charter exculpates all directors and
officers from liability for monetary damages, and considers whether
Count I's breach of fiduciary duty claims (as alleged directly)
should be dismissed based on such corporate charter-provided
immunity. ECF No. 25, at 34.
In Maryland, a corporation may include a provision in its
charter limiting the liability of its directors and officers to
the corporation or its shareholders for money damages. See Md.
Code Ann., Corps. & Ass'ns § 2-4 05.2; Md. Code Ann., Cts & Jud.
Proc. 5-418. wheeler's corporate charter does just that in
Article VIII, reading: To the maximum extent that Maryland law in
effect from time to time permits limitation of the liability of
directors and officers of a corporation, no present or former
director or officer of the Corporation shall be liable to the
Corporation or its stockholders for money damages. // ECF No. 25,
Ex. 5, at 21.
Notwithstanding the robust limitation of liability permitted
by Maryland law and invoked by the Wheeler charter, a charter's
exculpation clause may not limit liability to the extent that a
director or officer (1) actually received an \\ improper benefit, //
or (2) engaged in u active and deliberate dishonesty. If Md. Code
Ann., Cts & Jud. Proc. § 5-418; Hayes v. Crown Cent. Petroleum
Corp. , 78 F. App'x 857, 865 (4th Cir. 2003) . Therefore, the
Individual Defendants argue that because Plaintiff's Complaint
fails to allege that the directors either received an improper
benefit or engaged in active and deliberate dishonesty, Wheeler's
exculpation clause forecloses Plaintiff's breach of fiduciary claim
(Count I) to the extent it seeks monetary damages. ECF No. 25, at
34 .
Setting aside the merits of the Individual Defendants'
preceding argument for dismissal, the Court observes that numerous
district courts applying Maryland law have determined that it is
imprudent to rule on corporate charter-based exculpation at the
motion to dismiss stage. See Zucker, Tr. of Anita G. Zucker Tr,
Dated Apr. 4, 2007 v. Bowl Am., Inc., No. cv-21-1967, 2022 WL
7050991, at *3-4 {D. Md. Oct. 11, 2022); Kurlander v. Kaplan,
No. 819CV644, 2019 WL 3944335, at *6 (M.D. Fla. Aug. 21, 2019)
(applying Maryland law and declining to rule on corporate charter-
based liability at the Rule 12(b)(6) stage); see also Malpiede v.
Townson, 780 A.2d 1075, 1092 (Del. 2001) ("In the case of a Rule
12(b)(6) motion, [if a charter provision limiting director
liability] is raised for the first time in the [dismissal] motion
or brief in support of the motion. it is a matter outside the
pleading.")
Considering the reasoning underlying these authorities, in
Zucker, the District of Maryland observed that the "protection of
an exculpatory charter provision appears to be in the nature of an
affirmative defense. // and reviewing courts generally do not
resolve contests surrounding . . . the applicability of defenses
through a Rule 12(b)(6) motion. Zucker, 2022 WL 7050991, at *3-
4 (quoting Edwards v. City of Goldsboro, 178 F.3d 231, 243 (4th
Cir. 1999)) (internal quotation marks omitted). As noted, only in
the relatively rare circumstances where facts sufficient to rule
on an affirmative defense are alleged in the complaint // may the
Court resolve the dispute at the 12(b) (6) stage. Goodman, 494 F.3d
at 464. Accordingly, reviewing courts have declined to rule on
the applicability of a charter exculpation provision when such
provision is not referenced in the complaint, reasoning that
without such provision, the w facts necessary to the affirmative
defense of exculpation do not clearly appear on the face of the
. . [c]omplaint. // Zucker, 2022 WL 7050991, at *4; see also
Frederick v. Corcoran, No. 370685, 2013 Md. Cir. Ct. LEXIS 5, at
*49 (Md. Cir. Ct. Aug. 14, 2013) ("The [charter immunity] issue is
raised in the defendants' briefs but is not included in the
plaintiffs' amended complaint. For that reason alone, the court
declines to address it on a motion to dismiss.").
With this guidance in mind. the Court notes that Plaintiff
did not reference the exculpation provision in his Complaint, nor
did he attach Wheeler's corporate charter to the Complaint.
Accordingly, the Court is not prepared to find that \\ all facts
necessary to the affirmative defense clearly appear on the face of
the complaint, and thus declines to rule on the merits of the
Individual Defendants' charter-exculpation argument at this stage
of the litigation. Goodman, 494 F.3d at 464 (quoting Richmond, 4
F.3d at 250) . Defendants \\ can of course re-raise the exculpation
provision as an affirmative defense on a more fulsome factual
record later in the proceeding. u Zucker, 2022 WL 7050991, at *4.
★ * *
In summary, the Individual Defendants have not carried their
burden to demonstrate the procedural propriety of dismissing Count
I's remaining direct claims based on either the business judgment
rule or Wheeler's corporate charter immunity. The Court next
addresses the Individual Defendants' challenges to Plaintiff's
third count alleging unjust enrichment.
b. Count III - Unjust Enrichment
The Individual Defendants also seek dismissal of Count III,
which alleges that the "Conflicted Insiders n (Individual Defendants
Stilwell, Borrack, Campbell, Poskon, Paris!, and Franklin) and the
Stilwell Fund Defendants were unjustly enriched through (1) their
receipt of series D shares as interest on their Notes and (2) the
discounts on the Conversion Price of their Notes. ECF No. 1, at
40 . Moreover, Count III alleges that Stilwell and one of the
Stilwell Fund Defendants were unjustly enriched in receiving at
least $7 million in investments by the Company in lieu of buying
back Series D Shares. // Id.
To review. the Court earlier ruled that Plaintiff failed to
satisfy Rule 23.1's prerequisites for bringing a derivative unjust
enrichment claim, and thus the Court here addresses the Individual
Defendants' challenge to Plaintiff's ability to pursue this claim
directly. To that end, the Individual Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has failed to plead facts sufficient to state a claim
for unjust enrichment. 20 ECF No. 25, at 35-36.
In Maryland, the elements of unjust enrichment are: (1) a
benefit conferred upon the defendant by the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant's knowledge of the benefit; and (3) the acceptance by
the defendant of the benefit under such circumstances as to make
it inequitable to retain the benefit without payment of its value.
Froelich v. Erickson, 96 F. Supp. 2d 507, 524 (D. Md. 2000) (citing
Klein v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 117 Md. App. 317, 345, 700 A.2d
262, 277 (Md. Spec. App. 1997)).
Plaintiff's first theory of unjust enrichment maintains that
either he or the putative class of Wheeler common stockholders
conferred a benefit upon certain Individual Defendants because
these defendant-directors (and one officer) received interest
payments on their Notes through shares of D stock. As previously
explained, some of these D Stock shares were eventually redeemed,
leading to Wheeler's dilutive issuance of more common stock to the
detriment of common stockholders. Id. For their part, the
Individual Defendants contend that Plaintiff's allegations fail to
state a claim for unjust enrichment because neither Plaintiff nor
the putative class of common stockholders performed a service for
or provided any benefits to the relevant Individual Defendants.
ECF No. 25, at 36.
After reviewing Plaintiff's Complaint and the 12(b)(6)
briefing, the Court first observes that Plaintiff has not furnished
any legal authority recognizing a direct claim for unjust
enrichment based on a shareholder-plaintiff's equity dilution. 22
See ECF No. 32. To be sure, it is not Plaintiff's obligation to
provide such corroborative authority. But the omission of support
for Plaintiff's unusual theory of unjust enrichment underscores
the incongruities between Plaintiff's pleading and the unjust
enrichment paradigm. Indeed, the "usual case" of unjust enrichment
involves a "plaintiff who, absent an express contract, performs a
service for, or provides a benefit to, the defendant, where the
defendant then accepts the benefit of the service, but fails to
compensate the plaintiff. Froelich, 96 F. Supp. 2d at 524. Under
such circumstances, the theory of u quasi-contract" permits a
plaintiff to receive compensation for the value of the benefit he
provided to the defendant. Id.
In view of this underlying rationale for unjust enrichment-
based recovery, the Individual Defendants have persuasively argued
that the Complaint fails to state that Plaintiff personally
conferred any benefit on the Individual Defendants as required to
state a direct claim for unjust enrichment. Neither the issuance
of the shares of D Stock, nor the eventual dilutive issuance of
common stock, constitutes a benefit conferred by Plaintiff (or the
putative class) on the Noteholders. When drawing reasonable
inferences in Plaintiff's favor, Wheeler's issuance of shares to
Noteholders cannot plausibly be interpreted as a benefit or
service n conferred by an individual shareholder-plaintiff (or a
putative class of common stockholders) on other Noteholders who
chose to purchase a debt security that was offered to all common
stockholders. See Froelich, 96 F. Supp. 2d at 524-25 (granting
summary judgment for defendants on the plaintiff's claim that the
defendants unjustly enriched themselves by replacing the plaintiff
as CEO and diluting his stock interests to nearly zero).
Moreover, even if the issuance of D Stock did confer the
requisite benefit on the Individual Defendants, Plaintiff has not
pleaded facts sufficient to support the third element of unjust
enrichment that the retention of the shares would be
"inequitable ft under these circumstances. Id. The fact that
certain Individual Defendants received shares of D Stock as
interest payments, as authorized to be paid to any participating
shareholder by the prospectus for the Rights Offering, is
insufficient to state "inequitable" retention. See Stilwell Value
Partners I, L.P. v. Prudential Mut. Holding Co., No. 06-4432, 2007
WL 2345281, at *12 {E.D. Pa. Aug. 15, 2007) (dismissing
shareholders' claim for unjust enrichment where the challenged
transaction was warned of in the prospectus and was legal under
the relevant regulations and could not be found to be unjust").
Plaintiff's second theory of unjust enrichment fails for
similar reasons. Plaintiff claims that certain Individual
Defendants were unjustly enriched when they received discounts on
the conversion price of their Notes to common stock. ECF No. 1,
at 40. But Plaintiff again fails to provide any sufficient
explanation as to how the Individual Defendants' discounted
conversion of their Notes constituted a benefit conferred upon such
directors (and one officer) by either Plaintiff or the putative
class of Wheeler common stockholders. See Stilwell Value Partners,
2007 WL 2345281, at *12. And even if the Court could find that
Plaintiff had adequately stated that he or the putative class
conferred the requisite benefit. Plaintiff has not pleaded
sufficient facts to support the notion that the Individual
Defendants' conversion of their Notes was inequitable or unjust
under these circumstances, where conversion was available to all
the common stockholders who chose to participate in the Rights
Offering. See Carfagno ex rel. Centerline Holding Co. V .
Schnitzer, 591 F. Supp. 2d 630, 636 {S.D.N.Y. 2008) (finding that
because all shareholders were given the opportunity to participate
in a rights offering, the defendant directors >v cannot be said to
have manipulated the corporate processes in order to engineer a
dilutive transaction whereby they received an exclusive benefit")
(internal quotation marks omitted).
Finally, Plaintiff claims that Stilwell and Stilwell Activist
Investments, L.P. (one of the Stilwell Fund Defendants) were
unjustly enriched by Wheeler's decision to invest \\ at least $7
million // in such fund. ECF No. 1, at 40. However, Plaintiff's
Complaint again fails to state that he or the putative class
conferred this alleged financial benefit on Stilwell or the
Stilwell Fund Defendant. Compounding the flaws in Count III,
Plaintiff does not provide sufficient facts to support the notion
that Individual Defendant-directors Borrack, Campbell, Poskon,
Parisi, or Franklin were enriched by Wheeler's investment in one
of Stilwell's investment funds. See Eastland Food Corp. v.
Mekhaya, 486 Md. 1, 41, 301 A.3d 308, 332 (2023) (affirming
dismissal of unjust enrichment claim in the context of stockholder
suit because the benefits of excessive compensation and funds for
personal use came at the corporation's expense, not [plaintiff's]
directly").
At bottom, in directly alleging unjust enrichment based on
(1) the Board's issuance of D Stock shares for interest payments
and (2) the Noteholders' discounted conversion of their Notes,
Plaintiff has unconvincingly tried to shoehorn these allegations
into an ill-suited theory of relief. See Transeo S.A.R.L. v.
Bessemer Venture Partners VI L.P., 936 F. Supp. 2d 376, 410 n.l8
(S.D.N.Y. 2013) {"To the extent that Plaintiffs allege that [the
defendant's] actions with respect to the 2009 Stock Option Plan
diluted the value of Plaintiffs' shares, this also fails to state
a claim . . . [because a] prima facie unjust enrichment claim
requires allegations that the defendant benefitted at
Plaintiffs' expense.")/ Mina Inv. Holdings, Ltd, v. Lefkowitz, 51
F. Supp. 2d 486, 489 (S.D.N.Y. 1999) (dismissing a claim for unjust
enrichment, in the context of a capital offering that diluted the
plaintiffs' equity, because the plaintiffs u failed to allege, in
anything other than conclusory terms, the dilution of their equity
interest in [the company], the enrichment sustained by [the
defendant] , and the manner in which that enrichment was at
Plaintiffs' expense"); see also Singer v. Dungan, No. 107888, 1992
WL 884986, at *4 (Va. Cir. Ct. Oct. 28, 1992) (dismissing claim
for unjust enrichment where the plaintiff asserted that the
defendants w appropriated // the plaintiff's equity by purchasing
newly issued shares for reduced value). Plaintiff thus has failed
to plead facts sufficient to state a direct claim for unjust
enrichment. Because Plaintiff's derivative unjust enrichment claim
has already been dismissed, see supra Part III.B.l, the Individual
Defendants' motion to dismiss Count III is granted as to all of
the so-called w Conflicted Insiders u Individual Defendants
Stilwell, Borrack, Campbell, Poskon, Parisi, and Franklin.
C. stilwell Fund Defendants' Motion to Dismiss
The Court next turns to the Stilwell Fund Defendants' separate
motion to dismiss, ECF Nos. 26 & 27, which seeks dismissal of
Counts II and III under Rule 12(b)(6).
1. Count II
Plaintiff's second count alleges, directly and derivatively,
that the Stilwell Fund Defendants aided and abetted the Individual
Defendants' breaches of fiduciary duty. The Stilwell Fund
Defendants' challenge to the viability of Plaintiff's derivative
claims is summarily granted for all the reasons described above in
Part III.B.l. In short. Plaintiff fails to satisfy the notice
requirements of Rule 23.1. As to the Fund Defendants' challenge
to Plaintiff's direct claims alleging aider and abettor liability.
because Plaintiff's first count directly alleging breach of
fiduciary duty remains viable, the Court addresses below the Fund
Defendants' challenge to Count II's assertion of aider and abettor
liability.
a. Applicable State Law
The Stilwell Fund Defendants first argue that Virginia law
should apply to Plaintiff's aiding and abetting claim and maintain
that because Virginia law does not recognize such cause of action,
Count II must be dismissed. To support this proposition, the Fund
Defendants cite several district court opinions applying Virginia
law to a plaintiff's claim for aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty. See, e.g. , St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v.
Hoskins, No. 5:10cv087, 2012 WL 748574, at *4 {W.D. Va. Mar. 7,
2012); AvalonBay Communities, Inc, v. Willden, No. I:08cv777, 2009
WL 2431571, at *11 (E.D. Va. Aug. 7, 2009). However, as Plaintiff
points out. the foregoing opinions considered claims that did not
implicate the internal affairs doctrine. which here requires the
application of Maryland law to Count I, the underlying claim for
breach of fiduciary duty. See St. Paul Fire, 2012 WL 748574, at
*1; see also AvalonBay Communities, 2009 WL 2431571, at *11.
To analyze the appropriate choice of law, the Court begins
with the fundamentals. This Court exercises its diversity
jurisdiction over the instant suit, and a federal court sitting in
diversity in Virginia should apply Virginia's choice of law rules,
which respect the internal affairs doctrine. Klaxon Co. v. Stentor
Electric Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487, 496 {1941); 4D-
Enterprises, 2020 WL 13750856, at *8 n.8; see also United States
V. Kolon Indus., Inc., 926 F. Supp. 2d 794, 814 (E.D. Va. 2013)
("As a general proposition, the law of the state of incorporation
normally determines issues relating to the internal affairs of a
corporation") (internal quotations omitted). To that end, the
internal affairs doctrine counsels that the law of the state of
incorporation should apply to matters peculiar to the
relationships among or between the corporation and its current
officers, directors, and shareholders. Edgar, 457 U.S. at 645.
Here, Wheeler is incorporated under Maryland law, and thus it
is uncontroverted that Maryland law applies to Plaintiff's first
count alleging the underlying claim for breach of fiduciary duty.
That said. the Fund Defendants are correct that federal district
courts sitting in Virginia have applied Virginia law to claims for
aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary outside the context of
the corporate internal affairs doctrine. See St. Paul Fire, 2012
WL 748574, at *4; see also AvalonBay Communities, 2009 WL 2431571,
at *6, n.5. In deciding to apply Virginia law in that context.
another judge of this court reasoned that Virginia choice of law
rules include the lex loci delicti doctrine. under which
substantive rights are determined by the law of the jurisdiction
where the alleged tort occurred (i.e. the tort of aiding and
abetting a breach of fiduciary duty). AvalonBay Communities, 2009
WL 2431571, at *6, n.5.
Here, the application of the internal affairs doctrine
complicates, and distinguishes, the choice of law analysis from
that in AvalonBay and St. Paul Fire, The parties have not found,
nor has the Court located, a case in which a court applied
Virginia's choice of law rules in the context of a claim for aiding
and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty when the underlying breach
of fiduciary duty claim is governed by the law of a different state
of incorporation pursuant to the internal affairs doctrine. In
the absence of such guidance. this Court must predict how the
Virginia Supreme Court would rule if presented with this issue.
Priv. Mortg. Inv. Servs., Inc, v. Hotel & Club Assocs., Inc., 296
F.3d 308, 312 (4th Cir. 2002). In so doing, the Court may consider
Virginia state court opinions, restatements of the law, treatises,
and well-considered dicta. Id.
Incorporating these various authorities into the analysis.
the Court first observes that Virginia-based district courts
exercising diversity jurisdiction have repeatedly applied the
internal affairs doctrine. and thus have applied the law of a
different state of incorporation to a claim for breach of fiduciary
duty. See Kolon Indus., Inc., 926 F. Supp. 2d at 814; 4D-
Enterprises, 2020 WL 13750856, at *8 n.8. Claims for breach of
fiduciary duty may sound in tort, and therefore the principle of
lex loci delicti, or law of the place where the tort has been
committed. has not been unfailingly adhered to in the corporate
context. Id. Indeed, the parties here agree that under Virginia
choice of law principles. Maryland law applies to Plaintiff's
breach of fiduciary duty claims, ECF No. 25, at 22, notwithstanding
that such alleged breaches were plausibly committed in Virginia
where Wheeler holds its board meetings at its principal place of
business. Further supporting Virginia courts' recognition of the
importance of the internal affairs doctrine. in Taylor v. Mutual
Reserve Fund Life Asso., the Virginia Supreme Court observed that
[i]t seems to be well settled that courts will not interfere with
the management of the internal affairs of a foreign corporation.
Such questions are to be settled by the tribunals of the State
which created the corporation. It 97 Va. 60, 67, 33 S.E.2d 385, 388
(1899).
Turning to secondary sources and treatises for additional
guidance, the Restatement of Conflict of Laws counsels that when
answering a choice-of-law question, reviewing courts should
consider the u certainty, predictability, and uniformity of result. It
Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Law § 6 (1971); 1 Moore's
Manual Federal Practice and Procedure § 3.61 (2024) ("[T]he
Restatement (Second) of Conflicts ... is an authoritative source
of guidance for the federal courts [and] [i] n any
determination, the court considers [t] he certainty.
predictability, and uniformity of result. // ) ; 1 Connecticut Contract
Litigation § 1.03 (2024) (recognizing that generally applicable
choice of law principles include certainty, predictability, and
uniformity of result"); 3 Florida Torts § 100.02 (2024) (same). 23
Considering such guidance here, there are strong prudential reasons
supporting the uniform application of one state's law to the two
closely related claims. Otherwise, applying Maryland law to
Plaintiff's breach of fiduciary duty claim and Virginia law to the
claim that another defendant aided and abetted that same breach
could produce mismatched results which would make it
difficult for parties to anticipate what actions are tortious in
any given situation. // In re AGNC Inv. Corp., No. CV-16-3215, 2018
WL 3239476, at *11 (D. Md. July 3, 2018). This is especially true
when the viability of one legal claim turns on the validity of
another legal claim, as here. See Zucker, 2022 WL 1720151, at *12.
Finally, the Court observes that myriad federal courts across
jurisdictions have elected to apply the law of the state of
incorporation to claims alleging aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty, but also recognizes that such decisions are not
controlling when analyzing Virginia law. See In re Am. Ambulette
& Ambulance Serv., Inc., 560 B.R. 256, 263 (Bankr. E.D.N.C. 2016)
(finding that North Carolina courts had not determined the conflict
of law issue and concluding that, based on North Carolina law's
application of the internal affairs doctrine, the claims for aiding
and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty were properly considered
under the law of the state of incorporation); In re AGNC, 2018 WL
3239476, at *11; In re Fedders N. Am., Inc., 405 B.R. 527, 543
(Bankr. D. Del. 2009) ("As with the breach of fiduciary duty claims.
the internal affairs doctrine compels the Court to apply Delaware
law to the claim for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duty."); Mukamal v. Bakes, 378 F. App'x 890, 896-97, 902 (11th Cir.
2010) (same); City of Harper Woods Employees' Ret. Sys. v. Olver,
589 F.3d 1292, 1294-95 (D.C. Cir. 2009) (same); Abrams v.
McGuireWoods LLP, 518 B.R. 491, 499 (N.D. Ind. 2014) (same). 24
Mindful of this doctrinal background, and in view of the
Virginia Supreme Court's articulation of corporate law in Taylor
and the guidance provided by the foregoing secondary sources, the
Court concludes that the greater weight of authority suggests that
the internal affairs doctrine applies to Plaintiff's aiding and
abetting claim, and therefore determines that Maryland law is
applicable to Count II. 25
b. Viability of Count II under Maryland Law
Next, the Fund Defendants argue that if Maryland law applies
to Count II, Plaintiff has still failed to state a claim upon which
relief can be granted. ECF No. 27, at 30. Considering this
contention. to assert an aiding and abetting claim under Maryland
law, a plaintiff must allege \\ (1) independent tortious conduct by
the principal of the tort; (2) assistance, aid or encouragement to
the principal of the tort; and (3) knowledge that the tortious act
would be the natural consequence of their conduct. Zucker, 2022
WL 1720151, at *12; Natarajan v. Raju, No. 16-1196, 2017 WL 386540,
at *2 (D. Md. Jan. 27, 2 017) ; see also Alleco Inc, v. Harry &
Jeanette Weinberg Found., Inc., 340 Md. 176, 199, 665 A.2d 1038,
1049 (1995) (recognizing aider and abettor tort liability).
Applying these elements here, Plaintiff's Complaint satisfies
the first element of an aiding and abetting claim, alleging breach
of fiduciary duty against the Individual Defendants. Plaintiff
has alleged that the Individual Defendants, as the principals of
the tort, breached their fiduciary duties as Wheeler directors by
failing to make any genuine offers to repurchase outstanding shares
of D Stock, investing at least $7 million in one of the Stilwell
Fund Defendants, and paying interest to Noteholders in D Stock
shares. ECF No. 1, at 38.
Considering the second element, whether Plaintiff has
adequately alleged that the Fund Defendants assisted. aided or
encouraged the Individual Defendants' purported breaches of their
fiduciary duties. Plaintiff alleges that the Fund Defendants
purchased "nearly $25 million worth of the Notes issued (close to
90 percent of the available Notes). ECF No. 1, at 15. Plaintiff
has also alleged that one of the Fund Defendants received at least
$7 million in cash through the previously described investment by
Wheeler's Board. Id. at 38. Finally, Plaintiff has alleged that
the Fund Defendants received discounted D Stock shares as interest
payments on the Notes, and that Stilwell ultimately was able to
increase his ownership and control over Wheeler (thereby severely
diluting Plaintiff's ownership stake) through the Fund Defendants'
purchases of Notes. Id. at 39. These allegations are sufficient
at the pleading stage to satisfy the second element of aiding and
abetting liability — taken as true, such allegations demonstrate
that the Fund Defendants assisted and aided Stilwell's alleged
breach of fiduciary duties by acquiring Notes among other
transactions) to expand Stilwell's ownership in Wheeler while
diluting the value of the Company's common stock.
Turning to the third element required to state an aiding and
abetting claim, Plaintiff must sufficiently plead that the Fund
Defendants had "knowledge that [the Individual Defendants']
tortious act[s] would be the natural consequence of their conduct.
Zucker, 2022 WL 1720151, at *12. The Fund Defendants contend that
Plaintiff has not adequately alleged that they had any involvement
in Wheeler's decision to issue interest payments in D stock. ECF
No. 27, at 33-34. However, confounding the Fund Defendants'
position. Plaintiff alleges that "Defendant Stilwell's knowledge
should be imputed to the Stilwell Fund Defendants, which he owned.
controlled, and used to carry out his breaches of fiduciary duty.
ECF No. 1, at 39.
In light of this imputation dispute. and in the absence of
directly applicable Maryland law, the Court has reviewed Delaware
case law analyzing this third "knowledge element of an aiding and
abetting claim given the "significant respect" Maryland courts
accord to Delaware decisions on corporate law. See, e.g., Shenker,
983 A.2d at 420; Werbowsky, 766 A.2d at 143; Jolly Roger Fund LP
V. Sizeler Prop. Invs., Inc., No. Civ. 05-841, 2005 WL 2989343, at
*3 (D. Md. Nov. 3, 2005) ("With respect to corporate governance
issues, Maryland courts often look to Delaware caselaw.
Accordingly, this Court's analysis must be guided by Maryland law,
but will make reference to Delaware law in the absence of applicable
Maryland law.") 26 To that end, in In re PLX Tech. Inc. S'holders
Litig., the Delaware Court of Chancery analyzed the third element
of a Delaware claim for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary
duty — knowing participation in the underlying breach. No. cv
9880, 2018 WL 5018535, at *49-50 (Del. Ch. Oct. 16, 2018). In so
doing, the court observed that [w]hen the fiduciary and primary
wrongdoer is also a representative of the secondary actor who
either controls the actor or who occupies a sufficiently high
position that his knowledge is imputed to the secondary actor, then
the test is easier to satisfy. Id. The PLX Tech, court then
provided examples of appropriate imputation of knowledge, noting
that where a controlling stockholder uses acquisition entities to
influence a merger, the controlling stockholder's knowledge is
imputed to those entities for purposes of aiding and abetting
liability. Id. (citing In re Emerging Commc'ns, Inc. Sholders
Litig. , No. Civ. A. 16415, 2004 WL 1305745, at *38 (Del. Ch. May
3, 2004)) .
Moreover, the Delaware Court of Chancery employed similar
reasoning to recognize that an investment fund can be liable for
aiding and abetting when the same individuals who have made the
Fund's investment decisions are also the fiduciaries who engaged
in misconduct. Id. (internal quotation marks omitted) (citing
Forsythe v. ESC Fund Mgmt. Co., No. 1091, 2007 WL 2982247, at *13
(Del. Ch. Oct. 9, 2007)).
Applying this persuasive reasoning here, Stilwell is alleged
to own and control the Stilwell Fund Defendants and to have used
at least one of the Fund Defendants to purchase millions of dollars'
worth of Notes to increase his control over Wheeler, to say nothing
of the $7 million dollar investment that one of the Fund Defendants
allegedly received from Wheeler. Drawing all reasonable factual
inferences in Plaintiff's favor as the Court must at the pleading
stage, Stilwell plausibly controls the Stilwell Fund Defendants,
and like the entities in Emerging Commc'ns, Stilwell used the funds
to execute his corporate objectives, allegedly breaching his
fiduciary duties in the process. Emerging Commc'ns, 2004 WL
1305745, at *38. Additionally, like the investment fund at issue
in Forsythe, Stilwell is alleged to have made the Fund Defendants'
investment decisions. Therefore, Stilwell's knowledge may
plausibly be imputed to the Stilwell Fund Defendants, and thus
Plaintiff has sufficiently stated that the Fund Defendants had
knowledge that their purchases of Notes, receipt of D Stock shares.
and acceptance of an investment by Wheeler would effectuate the
Individual Defendants' breach of fiduciary duty. As a result, the
Court finds that the Stilwell Fund Defendants have not carried
their burden to demonstrate that dismissal is warranted and
therefore denies their motion to dismiss the direct claims advanced
in Count II.
2. Unjust Enrichment, Count III, as alleged against
the Stilwell Fund Defendants
The Stilwell Fund Defendants also seek dismissal of Count III
as alleged against them. For the same reasons supporting the Rule
23.1-based dismissal of Plaintiff's derivative claims against the
Individual Defendants, the Court grants the Fund Defendants' motion
to dismiss Count III to the extent it advances a derivative claim.
Below, the Court reviews the direct unjust enrichment claim alleged
against the Stilwell Fund Defendants.
Given the common factual predicate for Plaintiff's unjust
enrichment claim as alleged against both the Individual Defendants
and the Fund Defendants, the Court reincorporates its earlier
analysis and similarly finds that Plaintiff has not stated a direct
claim for unjust enrichment against the Fund Defendants. Indeed,
Plaintiff has not alleged that he personally (or the putative
class) conferred a benefit on the Fund Defendants, the first
element required to state a direct claim for unjust enrichment.
The benefits that the Stilwell Fund Defendants are said to have
received — discounted shares of D Stock as interest payment on the
Notes, a discounted common stock conversion price for the Notes,
and the investment from Wheeler — cannot plausibly be understood
as conferred by Plaintiff or the putative class. See Integrated
Direct Mktg. , 129 F. Supp. 3d at 374; Power Home Solar, LLC v.
Sigora Solar, LLC, No. 3:20cv42, 2021 WL 3856459 at *14 (W.D. Va.
Aug. 30, 2021) (dismissing unjust enrichment claim because the
plaintiff "never allege[d] that it intentionally conferred a
benefit on Defendants"); Arkansas Nursing Home Acquisition, LLC v.
CFG Cmty. Bank, 460 F. Supp. 3d 621, 649 (D. Md. 2020) (granting
dismissal because the Complaint does not allege that [the
plaintiff] conferred a benefit to anyone"); see also Steinmetz v.
Immy, Inc., No. 20-185307, 2021 Mich. Cir. LEXIS 1030, at *19-20
(2021) (dismissing claim that the defendants were unjustly
enriched at the expense of [the plaintiff] and other shareholders
through a stock dilution scheme because the complaint failed to
allege that the plaintiff directly conferred a benefit on the
defendants).
Moreover, while Plaintiff may have plausibly alleged that one
Fund Defendant received a benefit through the investment from
Wheeler, Plaintiff has failed to allege that the purported benefit
rightfully belonged to Plaintiff or the putative class. See
Arkansas Nursing Home Acquisition, 460 F. Supp. 3d at 649
(dismissing unjust enrichment claim in part because the benefit
conferred on the defendant — corporate assets — did not belong to
the plaintiff and thus the plaintiff had no claim to the benefit).
As a result. Plaintiff has not stated a direct claim for unjust
enrichment against the Stilwell Fund Defendants, and the Fund
Defendants' motion to dismiss Count III is thus granted as to
Plaintiff's direct claim alleged against them. Because Plaintiff
has failed to state a direct claim for unjust enrichment against
both the Individual Defendants and the Stilwell Fund Defendants,
and Plaintiff's unjust enrichment claim as alleged derivatively
fails as to all Defendants, Count III is dismissed in its entirety.
IV. Conclusion
For the reasons explained above, the Individual Defendants'
Motion to Dismiss is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part, ECF Nos.
23 Sc 24, and the Stilwell Fund Defendants' Motion to Dismiss is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. ECF No. 26. Accordingly, the
Court DISMISSES the derivative claims alleged in Counts I and II
with prejudice, and DISMISSES Count III in its entirety with
prejudice.
The Clerk is REQUESTED to send a copy of this Opinion and
Order to all counsel of record.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
/sTDl^
Mark S. Davis
CHIEF UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
Norfolk, Virginia
September (3 ^ 2024

FOOTNOTES
1 While the Individual Defendants formally submitted two separate motions to
dismiss, ECF Nos. 23 & 24, they supported both motions through one
consolidated brief, ECF No. 25. For ease of readability and analysis, the
Court considers the Individual Defendants' motions as one consolidated
argument for dismissal and addresses each argument as presented in ECF No.
25.
2 All facts stated herein are drawn from Plaintiff's Complaint. ECF No. 1.
When considering a motion to dismiss, the Court assumes that the facts
alleged in a complaint are true and draws all reasonable factual inferences
in the nonmovant's favor. Edwards v. City of Goldsboro, 178 F.3d 231, 244
(4th Cir. 1999). The facts recited herein are not to be considered factual
findings for any purpose other than consideration of the pending motions to
dismiss. See Edwards v. Murphy-Brown, L.L.C., 760 F. Supp. 2d 607, 611 n.l
(E.D. Va. 2011).
3 The Series D Preferred Shares have no stated maturity date nor general
voting rights. ECF No. 1, at 10.
^ By way of background, while both preferred stock and common stock represent
ownership or "equity" in a company, preferred stockholders typically receive
dividend payments before common stockholders and enjoy priority over common
stockholders if a company files for bankruptcy and liquidates its assets.
Stocks, United States Securities and Exchange Commission (2024),
https://www.investor.gov/introduction- investing/investing- basics/investm
ent-products/stocks#Kinds.
^ A proxy fight is a campaign to solicit votes (or proxies) in opposition to
management, most commonly at a company's annual meeting, Shareholder
activists often use proxy contests to change the composition of a company's
board of directors to influence business decisions in favor of the activist's
views. See 2024 LEXIS Practical Guidance - Proxy Contests: Process Overview
and Strategy Considerations.
61 (E.D. Va. 2023) (citing Int'1 Shoe, 326 U.S. at 316); Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 477 (1985). When analyzing
the parties' respective burdens, a district court may rely on
10 Seeking personal jurisdiction-based dismissal, the Stilwell Fund
Defendants cite Shaffer v. Meitner, 433 U.S. 186, 216 (1977) for the
proposition that merely purchasing an ownership interest in a company
incorporated in the forum state is insufficient to confer personal
jurisdiction over a nonresident. ECF No. 27. In Shaffer, the Supreme
Court observed that it "strains reason . . . to suggest that anyone buying
12 Plaintiff appears to allege that the Individual Defendants breached their
fiduciary duties through two series of decisions. First, the Individual
Defendants failed to authorize the Company to make any genuine offers in
13 By way of clarification. Plaintiff's claims brought on behalf of the
putative class (Wheeler common stockholders who did not participate in the
Rights Offering and were allegedly harmed by the Defendants' actions) are
part of his direct action, not his derivative action. ECF No. 1, at 35; ECF
No. 32, at 25; see Shenker v. Laureate Educ., Inc., 411 Md. 317, 345, 983
A.2d 408, 424 (2009) ("In contrast to a derivative action, a shareholder may
bring a direct action, either individually or as a representative of a class,
against alleged corporate wrongdoers" under certain circumstances.).
14 Moreover, even assuming that the preceding three directors were
conflicted, such conflicts alone do not excuse the demand requirement as it
is "well established" under Maryland law that "an interested board of
directors can utilize an SLC [Special Litigation Committee] to respond to a
shareholder demand and avoid the demand being excused entirely." Oliveira,
226 Md. App. at 542 n. 11 (citing Werbowsky, 362 Md. at 619, 766 A.2d at
123). The Oliveira court cautioned that demand is excused only in "very
extreme circumstances," and noted that it has become "a common practice" for
interested, non-independent directors to seek the advice of a special
litigation committee regarding a pre-suit demand. Id. Indeed, the Maryland
Court of Appeals has observed that "one justification for the expanded demand
requirement is to give the corporation ([encumbered by allegations or the
existence of adverse interests]) an opportunity to engage an SLC." Boland
V. Boland, 423 Md. 296, 331, 31 A.3d 529, 550 n.25 (2011). Therefore, to
the extent that Plaintiff maintains that the existence of a conflicted board
necessarily excuses the demand requirement, such position cannot prevail
here.
15 Plaintiff cites three cases where demand was deemed futile, but each case
is distinguishable and ultimately unpersuasive. First, in Laidlaw v.
Beneficial Bancorp, Inc., the Maryland trial court denied a motion to
dismiss, finding that the plaintiff reasonably inferred that making demand
upon the board would be futile because the board "voted themselves a
windfall" of over $14 million in stock compensation, thereby creating an
inference that the Board could not "reasonably be expected to respond in
good faith to a demand that they relinquish [such] benefits." No. 24-C-17-
1057, 2017 WL 8942454, at *5 (Md. Cir. Ct. Aug. 08, 2017). There, the
directors provided themselves "more than a decade's typical compensation in
a single transaction," a situation appreciably different from that alleged
here, where directors Borrack and Parisi are not alleged to have received
any direct financial benefit from the challenged transaction, and Campbell
is alleged to have participated in a Rights Offering open to all common
stockholders. Id. Second, Plaintiff cites Hibbard v. American Finance
Trust, Inc., where a New York court applying Maryland law found that
allegations that "directors received compensation from two [separate
companies'] boards with opposing interests" was sufficient to excuse demand.
No. 655339/2018, 2021 WL 6005261, at *7 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. Dec. 20, 2021). But
a leading treatise on Maryland corporate law has called into question the
strength of Hibbard's interpretation of Maryland's demand futility
exception, limiting the opinion's persuasive value here. See James J. Hanks,
16 As a result of such ruling, the Court need not address whether Plaintiff
satisfies Rule 23.1(a)'s requirement that he fairly and adequately
represent the interests of shareholders. Fed. R. Civ. P. 23.1(a).
17 Numerous authorities on Maryland law have recognized the viability, under
certain circumstances, of a shareholder's direct claim against directors for
breach of fiduciary duties. Eastland Food Corp. v. Mekhaya, 486 Md. 1, 74,
301 A.3d 308, 352 (2023) (Booth, J., concurring) ("[T]his case is the first
instance in which this Court has considered the effect of the 2016
legislative amendments to the directors' statutory standard of conduct,
which now provides a stockholder with a right to bring a direct claim against
corporate directors."}; see Bill Carson & Scott Wilson, The Director Duties
Bill: Amendments to Section 2-405.1 of the Maryland General Corporation Law,
49-OCT Md. B.J. 40, 41 (2016) (observing that "it is the legislative intent
that the standard of conduct run directly to the stockholders of a Maryland
corporation under limited circumstances and that the stockholders have a
direct remedy for any breach of the standard of conduct in such
circumstances"); see also Hanks, § 6.06B, 6-46 ("[A] stockholder's right to
sue a director directly or derivatively for failure to comply with the
statutory standard of conduct will be determined under applicable case law,
which distinguishes between injury to the corporation (derivative claim
available) and injury to the stockholder (derivative claim not
available) ." ) .
18 To the extent the Individual Defendants seek dismissal of Count III on
the same basis (that Plaintiff cannot state Count III directly), such
argument is underdeveloped, and the Court thus declines to dismiss Count
Ill's direct claims on this basis.
19 The issues raised by the affirmative defense of charter exculpation, to
some extent, depend on motive and state of mind, and thus will benefit from
further factual development in discovery.
20 The Court here only addresses the Individual Defendants' arguments for
dismissal and will later consider the Stilwell Fund Defendants' arguments
for the dismissal of Count III (as articulated in a separate motion) as
alleged against them. See ECF No. 27, at 34.
21 The parties agree that the elements of an unjust enrichment cause of
action are substantially the same in both Maryland and Virginia, and any
differences between the two are immaterial for purposes of the resolution
of the instant motion to dismiss Count III. See Integrated Direct Mktg.,
LLC v. May, 129 F. Supp. 3d 336, 374 n.32 (E.D. Va. 2015) (observing that
"the elements of an unjust enrichment cause of action are substantially the
same" in Maryland and Virginia); ECF No. 32, at 48.
22 In notional support of his unjust enrichment claim. Plaintiff cites the
following excerpted language from the Second Circuit's opinion in Strougo
V. Bassini; "[i]n terms of the dilution that resulted from the rights
offering, the participating shareholders actually benefited from the non
participating shareholder's injury." 282 F.3d 162, 175 (2d Cir. 2002). But
Plaintiff has cited the preceding observation out of context. Strougo
addressed claims for breach of fiduciary duties and violation of the
Investment Company Act, and never considered nor suggested that share
dilution could support a direct claim for unjust enrichment brought against
the shareholders who participated in a widely available rights offering.
Id.
23 The Fund Defendants claim that the Virginia Supreme Court "rejected" the
factors outlined in the Restatement (Second) of Conflicts of Laws in McMillan
V . McMillan, 253 S.E.2d 662, 663-64, 219 Va. 1127, 1130-31 (1979). But the
Fund Defendants have overstated McMillan^ s holding. There, the Virginia
Supreme Court reaffirmed that "the settled rule in Virginia is that the
substantive rights of the parties in a multistate tort action are governed
by the law of the place of the wrong, Id. In that context, McMillan
rejected the Restatement's so-called most significant relationship" test
because Virginia's existing rule better promoted "uniformity.
predictability, and ease of application." Id. Accordingly, McMillan did
not reject the Restatement's general guidance that certainty.
predictability, and uniformity of result are helpful considerations for a
reviewing court addressing a choice-of-law issue. Nor did McMillan address
Virginia choice-of-law principles in the context of the corporate internal
affairs doctrine, which obtains here and presents different legal
considerations from the car crash-based negligence action at issue in
McMillan.
24 Reviewing courts have also applied the internal affairs doctrine to claims
for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty when the defendants are
"bound up in the corporation's internal affairs as corporate insiders. See,
e■g■, Worley Claims Servs., LLC V. Jefferies, 429 F. Supp. 3d 146, 159-60
(W.D.N.C. 2019). Such considerations would counsel in favor of the
application of the internal affairs doctrine (and thus Maryland law) to the
aiding and abetting claims here, where the Fund Defendants are alleged to
have been significantly bound up in Wheeler's internal affairs through their
proxy contest to influence Wheeler's Board, their eventual accumulation of
a sizable ownership stake in Wheeler, and the fact that the Stilwell Funds
are supposedly controlled by their namesake Stilwell, an influential
corporate insider sitting on Wheeler's Board. Id.
25 Even if Virginia law applied to Plaintiff's aiding and abetting claim,
Virginia law remains unsettled as to whether aiding and abetting a breach
of fiduciary duty may be pled as a separate cause of action. Keil V. Seth
Corp. , No. 3:21cvl53, 2021 WL 5088242, at *12 (E.D. Va. Nov. 2, 2021) {"[T]he
Supreme Court of Virginia has neither expressly recognized nor expressly
rejected aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary action as a separate
cause of action, Instead, it has assumed the existence of the cause of
action to evaluate whether a plaintiff had properly pled a claim."). The
Fund Defendants thus overstate Virginia law to the extent they insist that
Plaintiff's aiding and abetting claim would necessarily fail under Virginia
law as non-cognizable.
26 The Fund Defendants only cite Adobe Systems Incorporated v. Gardiner for
the proposition that, under Maryland law, Stilwell's actions are not
imputable to the Fund Defendants. 300 F. Supp. 3d 718, 728 (D. Md. 2018).
In Adobe Systems, the court held that the plaintiff failed to state a claim
for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty against a corporate entity
solely owned by the individual defendant. In so holding, the court reasoned
that the complaint failed to provide a clear link between the corporate
entity's actions and the individual defendant's alleged breach, as the
corporate entity was only alleged to have provided loans to another corporate
entity supposedly involved in the breach. Id. In contrast, here, the
Stilwell Fund Defendants are alleged to have been intimately involved in
Stilwell's alleged breach of fiduciary duty, reportedly purchasing over $25
million worth of Wheeler Notes on Stilwell's behalf in addition to receiving
a multi-million-dollar investment from Wheeler. Moreover, Adobe Systems did
not address Maryland law regarding the imputation of knowledge and does not
provide any reasoning related to such issue. Id. Accordingly, the Fund
Defendants' citation to Adobe Systems, without more, does not carry their
burden to justify the dismissal of Count II, and the Court looks to well-
developedDelaware law on imputation of knowledge to determine if Plaintiff's
aiding and abetting claim may survive the Fund Defendants' challenge.
® To further explain the terms of the Rights Offering, each common stockholder
received one "right" for every eight shares of common stock they owned; one
right, in turn, conferred on the stockholder the ability "to purchase $25
principal amount of Notes, Id. at 2. The Notes bear interest at a rate
of seven percent annually, which would be paid by Wheeler twice per year in
either cash, discounted Series B Preferred Stock, or discounted D Stock.
Id. at 14. Interest paid in either Series B Preferred Stock or D Stock
would be substantially discounted from the respective securities' 15-day
average closing prices on the open market. Id.
while a 12(b) (6) motion focuses on the allegations of the complaint, it is
well established that a document attached to a motion to dismiss may be
considered when evaluating a motion to dismiss if the document was "integral
to the complaint and authentic. Sec'y of State For Defence v. Trimble Nav.
Ltd., 484 F.3d 700, 705 (4th Cir. 2007). Here, the response from outside
counsel is integral (and its authenticity is unchallenged) as such response
provides context for the subsequent analysis as to whether Plaintiff
satisfied the prerequisites for bringing the instant derivative suit. Fed.
R. Civ. P. 23.1.
® A reverse stock split refers to a corporation's reduction in the number of
shares outstanding by calling in all shares and issuing a smaller number
while the overall corporate capital remains the same. The effect of a
reverse stock split is to increase the value of each share while
proportionally reducing the number of shares. See, e.g., FGS Enterprises,
Inc. V. Shimala, 625 N.E.2d 1226, 1227 n.2 (Ind. 1993) ; see also Black's Law
Dictionary 1320 (6th ed. 1990).
n The Individual Defendants' 12(b)(6) motion (challenging Count I) requires
resolution before the Fund Defendants' 12(b)(6) motion (challenging Count
II) because the sufficiency of the allegations in Count II depend in part
on the sufficiency of Count I.
Jr., Maryland Corporation Law § 7.22, at C. Demand on Directors (1994, 2015
Supp.) ("Contrary to the opinion of (Hibbard], where there are at least some
disinterested directors, demand is not excused."). Plaintiff's final
citation to Felker v. Anderson, No. 04 Civ. 0372, 2005 WL 602974 (W.D. Mo.
Feb. 11, 2005) is not entitled to significant weight as Felker has been
recognized by other courts as "an improper application of Maryland law and
as generally unpersuasive." Seidl v. American Century Cos., 713 F. Supp.
2d 249, 258 n.l3 (S.D.N.Y. 2010) (applying Maryland law).