[Cite as Speedy Maintenance Serv., L.L.C. v. Windsor Tower, L.L.C., 2024-Ohio-5841.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO 
SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT 
MONTGOMERY COUNTY 
 
SPEEDY MAINTENANCE SERVICE 
LLC  
 
     Appellant 
 
v.  
 
WINDSOR TOWER LLC et al.  
 
     Appellee 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
 
 
C.A. No. 29996 
 
Trial Court Case No. 2021 CV 01747 
 
(Civil Appeal from Common Pleas 
Court) 
 
. . . . . . . . . . . 
 
O P I N I O N 
 
Rendered on December 13, 2024 
 
. . . . . . . . . . .  
 
BRADLEY R. HOYT, Attorney for Appellant  
                                    
ALEX J. CASTLE, Attorney for Appellee 
 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  
LEWIS, J. 
{¶ 1} Appellant Speedy Maintenance Service LLC (“Speedy”) appeals from a 
judgment of the Montgomery County Common Pleas Court awarding $48,260 to 
Appellees Windsor Tower LLC (“Windsor Tower”) and Windsor Construction Services 

 
 
-2- 
LLC (“Windsor Construction”) (collectively “Windsor”) on their counterclaims for breach of 
contract and slander of title.  For the following reasons, the judgment of the trial court will 
be affirmed.  
I. 
Procedural History and Facts 
{¶ 2} On April 29, 2021, Speedy filed a complaint in the Montgomery County 
Common Pleas Court against Windsor Tower, Windsor Construction, and the 
Montgomery County Treasurer (“Treasurer”), asserting claims for: 1) breach of contract, 
2) unjust enrichment, 3) foreclosure of mechanics lien, and 4) violation of R.C. 4113.61.  
The fourth claim was withdrawn by Speedy during trial.   
{¶ 3} The Treasurer filed an answer asserting its interest in real estate taxes and 
assessments if the property were sold.  Windsor filed a Civ.R. 12(B)(6) motion to dismiss, 
which the trial court overruled.  
{¶ 4} On January 26, 2022, the parties filed an agreed application to approve a 
bond to discharge the mechanics lien filed by Speedy related to the third claim for relief, 
which the trial court approved.  On February 15, 2022, Windsor Tower and Windsor 
Construction filed their answer and counterclaim, asserting counterclaims for breach of 
contract and slander of title.   
{¶ 5} The matter proceeded to a bench trial on June 15, 2023, and November 9, 
2023.  The following testimony was presented at trial.  
{¶ 6} Otis Stevens, the managing member of Speedy, testified that Speedy was a 
restoration contractor that dealt with masonry and concrete restoration and had been in 
business for about 30 years.  Stevens became acquainted with Windsor Construction 

 
 
-3- 
through Alexius Dorsey, the owner, whom Stevens knew as “Alex.”  Dorsey thought 
Stevens might be interested in a renovation project, which later turned out to be a parking 
structure at 40 West 4th Street in Dayton, Ohio.  The building project was a large 
commercial building, about 14 stories tall, that had a parking garage at the rear with 6 
parking levels.  The building was a concrete structure with a rain sweep veneer on the 
exterior.  When Stevens and Dorsey walked through the garage, Stevens said he was 
interested in doing the project and agreed to do it.  
{¶ 7} Speedy was commissioned to restore the surface parking portion of the 
garage structure.  The surface was made of concrete and rebar, and Speedy was 
charged with removing the rusted steel and the spalling concrete as laid out by the 
engineer in a project manual provided by Windsor.  Speedy received specification 
sheets, and its employees took classes on how to install to the manufacturer’s 
specifications.  Speedy and Windsor talked comprehensively about how to proceed, 
including meeting with the product manufacturer to learn how to meet the manufacturer’s 
standards.  Stevens explained that it was not uncommon to have product manufacturers 
involved to ensure their products were installed correctly to certify the warranty on the 
product.  Windsor provided several items needed for the construction because they 
wanted to be involved in controlling multiple aspects of the project.  
{¶ 8} No formal bid for the project was submitted by Speedy, although Stevens 
stated he wrote up an estimate.  The purported estimate was never signed and was not 
introduced at trial.  Speedy prepared a notice of furnishing, which identified the project 
as 40 West 4th Street Garage Improvement and stated that Speedy would furnish or 

 
 
-4- 
perform the following: demolition and site protection, shoring and forming, steel repairs, 
slab and joist repairs, column repairs, overhead repairs, and material removal and 
disposal.  The notice did not give an estimate for the cost of the work.  Stevens stated 
that he negotiated the terms of the contract with Dorsey, and they had an oral agreement.  
According to Stevens, Speedy was expected to do what the engineer had reported and 
repair all the concrete surfaces on each floor, which included the deck on the sixth floor 
and repairs on the fifth, fourth, and possibly the third floors.  Stevens expected to be paid 
$85,000 for the fifth floor, and then $75,000 for the other floors.  Stevens explained that 
the extra $10,000 for the fifth floor was because of training and mobilization.  It was 
anticipated the work would take about four to five weeks per floor, and Speedy was 
expected to work six or seven days per week to meet the scheduling, which it did.  On 
average, Speedy had five to six men on site daily.  Joe Circle, from Windsor, was also 
on site daily.  
{¶ 9} Speedy started working on the project on September 10, 2019, and ended 
all work on November 6, 2019.  Speedy was supposed to follow the engineer’s layout of 
specifications for restoring the concrete surfaces of the garage.  Speedy was to remove 
patches of concrete, spall concrete and rebar, and replace the rebar that tied together.  
The repairs included some of the ceilings, columns, and walls.  The engineer marked the 
concrete surfaces of the areas in which the repairs were to occur, and those were the 
primary areas in which Speedy worked.  However, sometimes there were areas that 
needed work that had not been marked, and Speedy would check with the superintendent 
and the engineer before moving forward with those repairs.  Both Speedy and Windsor 

 
 
-5- 
supplied equipment to perform the repairs. 
{¶ 10} Stevens testified about several photographs that depicted some demolition 
work done by Speedy as well as some of the completed repairs.  Speedy made cuts into 
the old surfaces and removed damaged material that was then replaced.  The work 
Speedy did on the garage was mainly on the fifth floor.  Stevens was not aware of why 
Windsor wanted them to start on the fifth floor.  
{¶ 11} On September 16, 2019, Speedy submitted invoice number 1713 to 
Windsor, identified as services on “1 floor @ $75,000” for work performed on the fifth 
floor.  Stevens testified that Windsor paid $5,000 for that invoice and then an additional 
$10,000 later.   
{¶ 12} In an email on September 20, 2019, Windsor requested that all shoring on 
the fifth floor be completed that day according to the structural engineer’s project 
requirements.  Shoring was the process of holding up the structural underpinning of a 
surface.  Windsor also requested start and end times each day with the number of 
personnel on site.  Stevens testified that Speedy provided daily manpower timesheets to 
Windsor when requested.  
{¶ 13} On September 24, 2019, Windsor advised that their target for completing 
fifth floor saw cuts, shoring, prepping, and steel installation was September 27, 2019.  
Windsor also inquired about daily time sheets and a labor proposal from Speedy for the 
fifth floor, indicating there had been no contract signed.  Stevens responded that Speedy 
was about halfway done with the work on the fifth floor but foresaw issues with Windsor’s 
timeline.  Although Stevens provided a list of man hours, he clarified that Speedy was 

 
 
-6- 
not charging by man hours but rather “working off an evaluation given by Alex at $75,000 
per floor.”  Pl. Ex. 11.    
{¶ 14} By September 30, 2019, Speedy started working on the sixth floor of the 
garage.  According to Stevens, there was no way to do the fifth floor without doing some 
work on the fourth and sixth floors too.  Stevens could not recall if any new concrete had 
been poured by September 30, 2019.  While Speedy was working on the project, a 
product inspector verified that the products were being installed correctly to the 
manufacturer’s specifications, and employees of Windsor took photos of the progress 
Speedy completed.  Ed Baum, the engineer on the project, also checked on Speedy’s 
work and approved of Speedy pouring concrete.   
{¶ 15} On October 11, 2019, Speedy sent Windsor invoice number 1717 for 
$23,007.60, which included additional services that Speedy had provided.  A change 
order was submitted breaking down the $23,007.60 into labor hours and costs.  By that 
time, there was another subcontractor, later identified as Juan Osario, involved in the 
project doing masonry work.  Osario was working on floors one, two, and three of the 
garage but was not doing any work on the upper floors.  Speedy removed concrete and 
debris for Osario and also took a load or two to the dumpster, which Speedy billed as time 
and material on the invoice.   
{¶ 16} On October 15, 2019, Circle emailed Stevens stating that, before Windsor 
would release any money, Speedy needed to complete the full slab and joint repair on 
the fifth floor.  Circle expressed concerns that Speedy had invoiced for 44% of the total 
agreed price but that only 10% of the work had been completed.  Stevens sent an email 

 
 
-7- 
response that same day explaining that they had an agreement “between 75 and 80,000 
per floor” and Speedy had far exceeded Circle’s 10% estimate to be entitled to the money 
billed.  According to Stevens, Speedy was about 80% done with the concrete slab and 
ceiling deck, including the main vertical columns, which was the majority of the work.  
Stevens claimed Speedy was eligible for a draw based on work completed, and he 
demanded payment.   
{¶ 17} On October 17, 2019, Circle emailed Stevens stating that Windsor expected 
the entire fifth floor to be completed by October 31, 2019.  Stevens indicated Speedy 
would aim for that completion date barring anything outside its control.  By October 24, 
2019, Speedy had poured concrete in several areas of the garage on the fifth floor, but 
Speedy did not complete the entire fifth floor before October 31, 2019.  
{¶ 18} Stevens estimated that Speedy was about 80-90% finished with all the work 
on the fifth floor as of October 29, 2019.  The progress reports indicated that 185 square 
feet of demo slab joist had been cleaned and 831 square feet of completed slab joist had 
been repaired.  Stevens estimated that the whole fifth floor was around 6,000-8,000 
square feet.  
{¶ 19} Invoice number 1720 was sent to Windsor on October 29, 2019, requesting 
the amount of $15,000.  According to Stevens, this included additional work done by 
Speedy, including cleanup and debris removal, that was not part of the agreed flat price 
per floor.  A final invoice was sent to Windsor dated November 4, 2019, invoice number 
1722, requesting a balance due of $8,000.  Stevens claimed this invoice was for work 
done off the fifth-floor contract price.  

 
 
-8- 
{¶ 20} On November 6, 2019, Stevens received a letter stating that Speedy was 
being terminated for cause.  The termination letter ordered Speedy to “cease all work on 
both the DP&L and 40 West 4th Garage.”  According to Stevens, Speedy had been 
working on more than one project for Windsor and there had been an issue with the DP&L 
location, not the garage.  Stevens denied receiving any notification of default or notice to 
cure default prior to receiving the termination letter.  The following day, Stevens 
responded to the termination letter and indicated that Windsor had only paid $19,000 of 
the $85,000 contract and demanded payment of $66,000.   
{¶ 21} Stevens testified that as of November 6, 2019, he estimated Speedy had 
invoiced Windsor for about $64,000, but Windsor had only paid somewhere between 
$39,000-42,000.  Tr. 95.  For the final November 4, 2019 invoice, Windsor changed the 
$8,000 invoiced amount to reflect approval for $4,444.44 of work completed with a 10% 
reduction resulting in a payment of $4,000.  Speedy filed a mechanics lien on the 
property for $66,000, which was recorded with the Montgomery County Recorder. 
{¶ 22} Stevens testified that Speedy submitted an application for payment for the 
dates of September 27, 2019, through October 11, 2019, indicating that the contract price 
was $75,000, that $10,000 had previously been paid, and that Windsor owed $7,370.  A 
second application for payment was submitted for the dates October 11, 2019, through 
October 22, 2019, which indicated the original contract sum was $75,000, a net change 
was added by a change order for $10,000, and the current amount owed was $17,550.  
Stevens testified that the change order was not for additional work done but was for 
“mobilization and training,” which was the additional $10,000 that made up the total of 

 
 
-9- 
$85,000 for the fifth floor.  A third application for payment was submitted for the dates of 
October 22, 2019, through October 28, 2019, which indicated that no work had been 
completed during that time frame.  Stevens testified he was certain that work was 
performed during that time frame even though Speedy’s submission stated none had 
occurred.  The third application indicated that only 46 percent of the project was 
completed.  Stevens explained that the amounts listed in the applications were 
requested amounts, but the engineer, architect, or owner would have to sign off on it 
before it would be paid.  
{¶ 23} Stevens testified the initial contract price did not include the change orders 
when additional work was needed.  Stevens would approve a change with the engineer 
and the owner and have an agreed price for the work.  Stevens initially claimed there 
were discussions in emails with Circle regarding the change orders, but when questioned 
where in the emails those discussions were, he stated that they had occurred by oral 
communication.  Stevens testified that there had never been an agreement to send 
invoices for time and materials, it was just the simplest way to keep costs down.  In total, 
there were 674 hours of work for which Stevens submitted invoices that were above and 
beyond the originally agreed contract price.  
{¶ 24} Joseph Circle testified on behalf of Windsor.  Circle had a Master of 
Science degree from Ohio State University and had more than 29 years of experience in 
construction.  Circle was the director of preconstruction and a senior project manager for 
Windsor.  His duties were to prepare a project for construction and support the 
production process.   

 
 
-10-
{¶ 25} In 2011, the previous owners of 40 West 4th Street created a manual that 
provided specifications for how to properly perform the repairs for the garage.  In July 
2019, Windsor, as the current owner of 40 West 4th Street, worked with a structural 
engineer to create permit plan drawings.  The garage was constructed of concrete and 
steel, and, over time, water had infiltrated the concrete, which ultimately caused the loss 
of structural integrity.  The drawings represented the garage in two dimensions and 
provided plan notes for how to properly perform repairs.  
{¶ 26} Circle was not involved in developing the July 2019 plans.  When he was 
brought onto the project in September 2019, Speedy had already begun work on the 
project.  The first time Circle met Stevens was at the garage while Dorsey introduced 
Circle to the project and walked him through his responsibilities.  According to Circle, 
Speedy had received a copy of the 2011 manual and the 2019 drawings before it started 
working on the garage.        
{¶ 27} Circle testified that Speedy never submitted a bid for the job.  Circle made 
multiple requests of Speedy for a signed contract in order to continue working on the 
project, but Speedy never signed the written contract.  Circle testified that Stevens was 
reluctant to sign it.  The budget for the project was $75,000 per floor of the garage, and 
the parties understood that to mean they were not to exceed $75,000.  This would have 
included both cantilevered levels and the ramps for that floor.  They were proceeding 
with the fifth floor as a trial level because Speedy’s personnel were getting trained to do 
it.  The work itself was a bit ambiguous in scope because some defects were identified 
as the work progressed.  

 
 
-11-
{¶ 28} According to Circle, Speedy’s work was not performed in a consistent and 
timely manner.  Attendance was spotty, and Speedy failed to meet a single deadline.  
Speedy’s workers were not consistently present, workers would show up at different 
times, and they worked on different areas than were requested.  Circle repeatedly asked 
for updates and tried to review the expected timelines with Stevens to no avail.  The 
timeline was based on the need to put forms up, schedule the concrete, and schedule 
special inspections.  There was a timeline of eight weeks per floor in the contract.  
Speedy initially worked on the first half of the upper fifth floor parking deck surface.  By 
the time Speedy was terminated from the project, more than eight weeks later, it had not 
even completed the parking deck surface demolition on the upper level of the fifth floor.  
{¶ 29} On October 15, 2019, Circle sent an email to Speedy stating that he was 
“concerned about the rate of production.”  Circle was distressed that Speedy was both 
overbilling them and behind schedule.  Circle and Dorsey were at the construction site 
regularly working, training, and assisting Speedy.  Circle also had safety concerns for 
the work performed by Speedy.  Due to the condition of the structure, sections of 
columns, beams, and major sections of flooring had to be cut out to get repaired.  Based 
on the engineered specifications regarding structural integrity, they needed to have 
support from at least two levels below where they were working.  Failing to properly shore 
up their work would have resulted in the building collapsing and destroying the structure.  
Speedy did eventually correct the shoring issues.  
{¶ 30} On October 29, 2019, Circle sent Stevens another email in which he had 
measured and calculated the square footage that had been completed.  At that time, 

 
 
-12-
Circle measured 1,626 square feet of demoed slab joist that was not clean and 185 
square feet of demoed slab joist that was clean.  Whether it was clean determined 
whether it was ready for the bonding agent to be applied, which had to be done prior to 
pouring the concrete.  There was 831 square feet of completed slab joist repaired, 
meaning that the concrete had been poured back.  As of October 29, 2019, Speedy did 
not pour any additional concrete.  The total surface area for the fifth floor was 10,000 
square feet.  Circle estimated that Speedy completed only about 20% of the fifth floor.  
However, after Speedy was terminated, Circle had to replace all of Speedy’s work.  
{¶ 31} Speedy was sent a termination letter that related to multiple projects.  
Circle testified that Speedy had been terminated for overall lack of performance, inability 
to bid the work, no signed contract, and some egregious behaviors.  By the time it was 
terminated, Speedy had billed about $38,000.  A final invoice dated November 4, 2019, 
was received requesting an additional $8,000, some of which was paid.  The total 
amount paid to Speedy by Windsor for this project was $44,300.  
{¶ 32} After Speedy was terminated, Circle took photographs of the purported 
repairs that Speedy had made to the garage.  Circle testified that the photographs 
showed failed repairs on the fifth-floor slab and ceiling.  This included photographs 
showing concrete repairs that did not cover the rebar or the slab and joists, areas where 
rebar was protruding from the concrete, and areas where the concrete had already 
chipped and failed.   
{¶ 33} An independent third-party engineering firm questioned the integrity of all 
the work Speedy had done on the upper fifth floor.  The firm had not been able to 

 
 
-13-
evaluate Speedy’s work until after Speedy was terminated because the concrete had not 
yet cured.  Ed Baum, an engineer working on the project, had inspected Speedy’s work 
prior to termination, and he had expressed concern to Circle about Speedy’s work.   
{¶ 34} Juan Osorio, who had been working on different floors of the garage, redid 
all the work that Speedy had done.  Windsor paid Osorio a total of $65,300 for the work 
he completed on the fifth floor of the garage.  
{¶ 35} Alexius Dorsey testified next as the owner of Windsor Construction Service 
and Windsor Tower, LLC.  Dorsey was a developer and had been involved in the 
construction industry his whole life.  He carried several licenses for the company, 
including HVAC, electrical, plumbing, and asbestos.  Windsor would purchase adaptive 
reuse buildings and develop them.  Windsor did the acquisition, development, 
construction, and management of all of its own assets.  
{¶ 36} Windsor purchased the property at 40 West 4th Street in early 2019.  When 
Dorsey purchased the property, he knew it needed work, and he hired a company to 
develop plans for redoing the tower.   
{¶ 37} Dorsey met Stevens while working on a project at the Fire Blocks, another 
property in Dayton, Ohio.  Stevens introduced himself as a mason and discussed the 
project at 40 West 4th Street.  As Windsor received engineering reports, he kept Stevens 
updated and they walked through the project together a few times.  He and Stevens went 
over the scope of the work that Windsor had prepared with the engineers.  Through their 
discussions, Dorsey discovered that Stevens was not comfortable giving a number for the 
project.  Therefore, Dorsey offered the number $75,000 for one floor, which was to 

 
 
-14-
include the crash walls, columns, ramps, and both levels of each floor.  Stevens agreed 
to that amount.  
{¶ 38} Once Speedy started working on the project, Dorsey was at the job site two 
or three days a week to help show Speedy’s crew how the process should work.  Dorsey 
quickly learned that Speedy did not have the right equipment, so Dorsey purchased it to 
help Speedy do the work.  After three or four weeks of work, Dorsey had safety concerns 
with Speedy’s work, and it was behind schedule.  Dorsey had built the forms, the outlines 
of the areas in which to support concrete, and provided those to Speedy, but they were 
installed incorrectly and there was insufficient shoring.  He let Circle know about the 
issues and said things needed to be corrected before pouring any concrete.  
{¶ 39} Dorsey made the decision to terminate Speedy from the job based on how 
far behind Speedy was in completing the project and Speedy’s inappropriate billing.  
After Speedy was terminated, Dorsey inspected the work and concluded that nothing was 
fully completed.  There were several things that were in the process of being completed, 
but nothing was fully finished.  When Speedy was terminated, Windsor had paid Speedy 
around $38,000.   
{¶ 40} Dorsey was never served with a mechanics lien.  Rather, when Windsor 
was closing on the loans for its property, a title agency discovered the mechanics lien.  
The mechanics lien was dated November 6, 2019, and alleged that $66,000 was owed to 
Speedy.  According to Dorsey, $66,000 was never a number that fit the work.  When 
Dorsey learned of the mechanics lien, he contacted Stevens and demanded that the lien 
be removed, which Stevens refused.  As a result of the mechanics lien, the closing did 

 
 
-15-
not go through, and Windsor lost a bridge lender for its loan.  Between the time that the 
loan closing was to originally happen and the time that Windsor obtained a new bridge 
lender and closed, the interest rate had increased markedly. Based on the increase in 
interest on the loan, Dorsey had to pay over a million dollars more than he originally 
anticipated.  In order to complete the closing, Dorsey had to bond the lien off because 
Speedy refused to remove it and the lenders would not close with a lien on the property.  
Windsor made two payments for a total of $3,960 to pay for the bond.  
{¶ 41} Dorsey had worked with Osario on several prior ventures before the 40 
West 4th Street project.  Once Dorsey determined that Speedy was unable to handle the 
work on this project, Dorsey hired Osario to start work on the garage’s lower levels.  
Osario started work on the lower floors while Speedy worked on the fifth floor.  When 
inspections were done after Speedy was terminated, it was discovered that Speedy had 
done the work incorrectly.  Baum had indicated it was poor craftsmanship and Speedy’s 
work needed to be repaired and replaced.  Dorsey decided to have Osario redo the fifth 
floor.  Because nothing Speedy had worked on was fully completed, it was hard for 
Dorsey to estimate how much work Speedy had actually completed by the time it were 
terminated.  However, Dorsey estimated it was probably around 20%.  Although 
Windsor paid Speedy $44,300 to restore the fifth floor, it received no benefit from 
Speedy’s work because everything had to be redone.  
{¶ 42} Stevens testified on rebuttal that he had originally believed the project was 
going to be for all six floors.  Then the agreement was that Speedy was going to only do 
floors four, five, and six.  Stevens believed that eight weeks per floor was an aggressive 

 
 
-16-
schedule but Speedy tried to meet this deadline.  Stevens stated he brought his dump 
truck, mixer, and Bobcat to do work on the garage and helped Osario do cleanup on his 
floor.  Stevens explained that he had a base contract and then billed for additional things 
a la carte or for time and materials.   
{¶ 43} Stevens stated that Speedy worked on the fifth-floor slab, the ramps from 
the fourth floor to the fifth floor and the fifth floor to the sixth floor, mock-up work on the 
fifth-floor columns, patched some of the ceiling, and did the crash barriers.  Speedy used 
man hours to justify the invoicing.  Although it invoiced for more, Speedy only received 
$19,000 from Windsor.  
{¶ 44} On cross-examination, Stevens conceded that it was possible one or two 
payments from Windsor may not have been included in the $19,000 total.  According to 
Stevens, the change order was the only documentation that Speedy was billing for time 
and materials; there was no other agreement.  The $66,000 Speedy claimed Windsor 
owed was based on the contract price and the time and materials billings.   
{¶ 45} The trial court entered a final judgment on November 22, 2023, finding in 
favor of Windsor.  The trial court awarded Windsor $44,300 plus prejudgment and 
postjudgment interest on its breach of contract claim, declared the mechanics lien null 
and void, discharged and released the bond, and awarded Windsor $3,960 on its slander 
of title claim for insurance premiums paid to bond off the lien, plus postjudgment interest.  
Finally, the trial court awarded Windsor the costs of the action.  Speedy filed a timely 
notice of appeal.  
{¶ 46} On appeal, Speedy raises a single assignment of error alleging that the trial 

 
 
-17-
court’s decision was against the manifest weight of the evidence.  We disagree.  
II. 
Manifest Weight of the Evidence 
{¶ 47} The same manifest weight standard applies in both civil and criminal cases. 
Eastley v. Volkman, 2012-Ohio-2179, ¶ 17.  “In a civil case, in which the burden of 
persuasion is only by a preponderance of the evidence, rather than beyond a reasonable 
doubt, evidence must still exist on each element (sufficiency) and the evidence on each 
element must satisfy the burden of persuasion (weight).”  Id. at ¶ 19.  
{¶ 48} “A weight of the evidence argument challenges the believability of the 
evidence and asks which of the competing inferences suggested by the evidence is more 
believable or persuasive.”  (Citation omitted.)  State v. Wilson, 2009-Ohio-525, ¶ 12 (2d 
Dist.).  “Weight of the evidence concerns ‘the inclination of the greater amount of credible 
evidence, offered in a trial, to support one side of the issue rather than the other.’ ”  
(Emphasis in original.) State v. Thompkins, 78 Ohio St.3d 380, 387 (1997), quoting 
Black’s Law Dictionary (6th Ed. 1990).  “ ‘Weight is not a question of mathematics, but 
depends on its effect in inducing belief.’ ”  (Emphasis in original.)  Id., quoting Black’s 
Law Dictionary (6th Ed. 1990).   
{¶ 49} “This Court, in reviewing a weight of the evidence challenge, must consider 
the entire record, weigh the evidence and all reasonable inferences, consider the 
credibility of witnesses and determine whether in resolving conflicts in the evidence, the 
jury clearly lost its way and created a manifest miscarriage of justice.”  Emswiler v. 
Bodey, 2012-Ohio-5533, ¶ 43 (2d Dist.), citing Thompkins at 387.  The discretionary 
power of a reviewing court to grant a new trial is to be exercised only in the exceptional 

 
 
-18-
case in which the evidence weighs heavily against the judgment.  State v. Lang, 2011-
Ohio-4215, ¶ 220, citing Thompkins at 387.  We make every reasonable presumption in 
favor of the judgment and any finding of fact; if the evidence is susceptible of more than 
one construction, we are bound to interpret it in favor of the fact-finder's ruling.  Eastley 
at ¶ 21, citing Seasons Coal Co., Inc. v. Cleveland, 10 Ohio St.3d 77, 80, fn. 3 (1984).  
a. Breach of Contract 
{¶ 50} In this case, the trial court found that Windsor had proven by a 
preponderance of the evidence that Speedy had breached the contract.  The trial court 
determined that 1) there was a contract between the parties to renovate the garage for 
$75,000 for each floor; 2) Speedy breached the contract by failing to perform the work in 
a workmanlike manner and in a timely fashion; and 3) as a result of the breach, Windsor 
had to redo all of Speedy’s substandard work, which resulted in damages.  The record 
supports the trial court’s decision.  
{¶ 51} To prove a breach of contract claim, the claimant must establish by a 
preponderance of the evidence “the existence of a contract, performance by the plaintiff, 
breach by the defendant, and damage or loss to the plaintiff.”  Doner v. Snapp, 98 Ohio 
App.3d 597, 600 (2d Dist. 1994).  A “preponderance of the evidence” is the greater 
weight of the evidence that is not necessarily beyond all reasonable doubt but is “sufficient 
to incline a fair and impartial mind to one side of the issue rather than the other.”  Black’s 
Law Dictionary (12th Ed. 2024).     
{¶ 52} It is undisputed that there was a contract for Speedy to renovate the fifth 
floor of the 40 West 4th Street garage.  Stevens testified that the base contract was for 

 
 
-19-
$75,000 per floor but claimed the contract amount increased to $85,000 for the fifth floor 
because of mobilization and training.  Both Circle and Dorsey testified that the 
agreement was for Speedy to complete the renovation of the fifth floor for $75,000.  The 
trial court found that the agreed contract was for Windsor to pay Speedy $75,000 for 
reconstruction of the fifth floor.  In making this determination, the trial court explicitly 
found the testimony of Circle and Dorsey credible and Stevens’s testimony not credible.  
We defer to the credibility determinations of the trial court because “the trial judge is best 
able to view the witnesses and observe their demeanor, gestures and voice inflections, 
and use these observations in weighing the credibility of the proffered testimony.”  
Seasons Coal Co., 10 Ohio St.3d at 80. 
{¶ 53} Although each party relied on the written contract drafted by Windsor in 
support of its position, Stevens asserted at trial that the contract was $85,000 for the fifth 
floor.  The contract explicitly stated that “Payment will be $75,000.00 for both upper and 
lower levels of each floor where work is performed including the underside of the floors 
and both ramps.”  Joint Ex. III.  Dorsey testified that he and Stevens verbally reached 
an agreement that Speedy would be paid $75,000 per floor.  Tr. 269-270.  Speedy’s 
invoice for September 16, 2019, stated “Services 1 floor @ $75,000” and requested 
payment for work performed on the fifth floor at 40 West 4th Street Garage.  Pl. Ex. 2.  
In an email written by Stevens to Circle on September 24, 2019, Stevens wrote that 
Speedy was “working off an evaluation given by Alex at $75,000 per floor.”  Pl. Ex. 11.  
Speedy’s invoice for a payment period of September 27, 2019, through October 11, 2019, 
again listed the contract sum as $75,000.  Joint Ex. VII; Def. Ex. D.  There is no 

 
 
-20-
documentation in the record showing that Windsor agreed to pay Speedy an additional 
$10,000 for mobilization and training.  Accordingly, the greater amount of credible 
evidence supported the trial court’s finding that the parties had agreed to a contract for 
Speedy to complete renovations of the fifth floor at 40 West 4th Street garage in the 
amount of $75,000.  
{¶ 54} On November 6, 2019, Speedy was terminated from the 40 West 4th Street 
garage project due to Speedy’s “lack of performance” and “failure to perform to standard.”  
“Ohio common law imposes upon builders and contractors a duty to perform their services 
in a workmanlike manner.”  (Citations omitted.)  Jarupan v. Hanna, 2007-Ohio-5081, 
¶ 19 (10th Dist.).  “This implied duty ‘requires a construction professional to act 
reasonably and to exercise that degree of care which a member of the construction trade 
in good standing in that community would exercise under the same or similar 
circumstances.’ ”  Id., quoting Seff v. Davis, 2003-Ohio-7029, ¶ 19 (10th Dist.).   
{¶ 55} Although Speedy argues that it did not receive sufficient notice of any 
defects prior to Speedy’s termination, Circle had had several email correspondences with 
Stevens in which he identified the fact that Speedy was behind schedule as well as issues 
with Speedy’s work.  Circle testified that Speedy had failed to meet a single deadline.  
Stevens testified that each floor was expected to take only four to five weeks to complete, 
while Dorsey testified it should not have taken more than four weeks to finish each floor.  
The written contract indicated that completion of the fifth-floor renovations was expected 
to take no longer than eight weeks and specifically included that time was of the essence 
in performance of the contract.  Joint Ex. III.  Speedy started working on the garage 

 
 
-21-
project by at least September 10, 2019, and ended all work as of November 6, 2019, eight 
weeks later.  After eight weeks, the fifth floor was not close to being finished.     
{¶ 56} On October 15, 2019, Circle sent an email to Stevens stating that he was 
“concerned about the rate of production.”  On October 17, 2019, Stevens was advised 
that Windsor expected the entire fifth floor to be completed by October 31, 2019.  On 
October 29, 2019, Circle measured and calculated the square footage that was 
supposedly completed.  Of the 10,000 total square footage of the fifth floor, 1,626 square 
feet of demoed slab joist was not clean, 185 square feet of demoed slab joist was clean, 
and only 831 square feet of completed slab joist had been repaired, meaning that the 
concrete had been poured back.  Stevens testified that by the end of October, Speedy 
had completed 80-90% of the fifth floor.  The trial court found Steven’s testimony was 
not credible.  Based on the testimony of Circle and Dorsey, as of November 6, 2019, 
Speedy had only completed about 20% of the work on the fifth floor.  
{¶ 57} There were also concerns about the quality of Speedy’s work.  Dorsey 
testified that he had built the concrete forms himself and provided those to Speedy, but 
they were installed incorrectly and there was insufficient shoring under them.  On 
September 30, 2019, Circle advised that there were issues with the forms that had been 
installed as there were “gaps on the bottom and on the sides.”  Pl. Ex. 11.  On October 
4, 2019, Circle emailed Speedy that the engineer advised that the scaffold being used as 
shoring was not sufficient; moreover, Speedy needed to expand the shoring and get some 
“steel shims installed under the I beam shoring.”  Id.  Although Stevens claimed the 
shoring was sufficient, on October 7, 2019, Circle forwarded to Stevens a message from 

 
 
-22-
Baum, an engineer on the project, which stated that the scaffolding was “No Good.”  Id.  
Based on the engineered specifications to keep the building standing, Speedy needed to 
have support from at least two levels below where they were working.  Failing to properly 
shore up its work would have resulted in the collapse of the garage.  Circle testified that 
Speedy did eventually correct the shoring issues. 
{¶ 58} After the contract was terminated, Circle evaluated the work Speedy had 
done to the garage, which was determined to be completely useless.  Photographs Circle 
took showed the failed repairs on the fifth-floor slab and ceiling.  This included 
photographs showing concrete repairs that did not cover the rebar or the slab and joists, 
areas where the rebar was protruding from the concrete, and areas where the concrete 
had already chipped and failed.  In November 2019, an independent third-party 
engineering firm questioned the integrity of all the work Speedy had done on the upper 
fifth floor.  The firm had not been able to evaluate Speedy’s concrete work until after 
Speedy was terminated because the concrete had not yet cured.  Tr. 241-242.  The 
entirety of the work that Speedy had completed on the fifth floor was redone by Osorio.  
The total amount of money Windsor had paid Speedy for its work on the fifth floor was 
$44,300.   
{¶ 59} Based on the evidence submitted at trial, the trial court did not lose its way 
in finding that there had been a contract, that Windsor had performed under the contract, 
that Speedy had breached the contract, and that Windsor had been damaged as a result 
of the breach.  Therefore, the trial court’s judgment with respect to Windsor’s breach of 
contract claim was not against the manifest weight of the evidence.  Further, the trial 

 
 
-23-
court’s decision to not award Speedy anything on its claims was not against the manifest 
weight of the evidence.  
b. Slander of Title 
{¶ 60} Slander of title to real estate “is a tort action against one who falsely and 
maliciously defames title to property and causes some special pecuniary damages or 
loss.”  (Citations omitted.) Acme Constr. Co. v. Continental Natl. Indemn. Co., 2003-
Ohio-434, ¶ 46 (8th Dist.).  “Typically, slander-of-title cases involve documents filed 
against a particular piece of property by parties who claim an interest in the property.”  
Green v. Lemarr, 139 Ohio App.3d 414, 431 (2d Dist. 2000).  “ ‘The wrongful filing for the 
record of a document which casts a cloud upon another's title to or interest in realty is 
considered to be an act of publication which gives rise to an action for slander of title.’ ”  
Gasper v. Bank of Am., N.A., 2019-Ohio-1150, ¶ 36 (9th Dist.), quoting Smith Elec. v. 
Rehs, 1998 WL 103334, *2 (9th Dist. Feb. 18, 1998).  To prevail on a slander of title 
claim, “a claimant must prove ‘(1) there was a publication of a slanderous statement 
disparaging claimant's title; (2) the statement was false; (3) the statement was made with 
malice or made with reckless disregard of its falsity; and (4) the statement caused actual 
or special damages.’ ”  Green at 430-431, quoting Colquhoun v. Webber, 684 A.2d 405, 
409 (Me. 1996).  “ ‘As a general rule, wrongfully recording an unfounded claim to the 
property of another constitutes slander of title.’ ”  Cuspide Properties, Ltd. v. Earl 
Mechanical Servs., 2015-Ohio-5019, ¶ 37 (6th Dist.), quoting McClure v. Fischer Attached 
Homes, 145 Ohio Misc.2d 38, ¶ 21 (C.P. 2007).  
{¶ 61} Both parties agree that Speedy filed a mechanics lien against Windsor.  

 
 
-24-
“The filing of a mechanic's lien satisfies the publication element.”  Prater v. Dashkovsky, 
2007-Ohio-6785, ¶ 13 (10th Dist.), citing Prosser, The Law of Torts, § 122, at 939 (3d Ed. 
1964).  The trial court found that Windsor had proven its slander of title claim by a 
preponderance of the evidence based on its determination that: 1) Speedy was not owed 
the claimed lien amount; 2) Speedy’s lien claim was reckless; and 3) Windsor had actual 
damages for having to post a bond to discharge the lien.  Speedy argues on appeal that 
“the mechanics lien field by Speedy was justified and he is entitled to payment of $66,000 
owed on the contract breached by Windsor.”  Appellant’s Brief, p. 13.  We find Speedy’s 
argument unpersuasive.  
{¶ 62} The trial court found that the lien was false on its face considering that the 
contract was for an agreed price of $75,000 for completion of the fifth floor and Windsor 
had paid Speedy $44,300 for Speedy’s substandard performance.  On November 6, 
2019, Windsor sent Speedy a letter terminating their contract for cause.  That same day, 
Speedy’s employee signed the mechanics lien claim form, which was notarized, stating 
that in accordance with the agreement of the parties, the value of the project at 40 West 
4th Street was $85,000, of which $66,000 remained unpaid.  Although the mechanics 
lien was not recorded until January 14, 2020, no changes were made before it was filed.  
Stevens testified that the $66,000 amount was based on an $85,000 contract price and 
that Windsor had only paid $19,000 for the 40 West 4th Street project.  Stevens admitted 
during cross-examination that it was possible one or two payments from Windsor may not 
have been included in the $19,000 total.  Stevens also testified that as of November 6, 
2019, Windsor had paid $39,000-42,000, and Windsor paid an additional $4,000 after the 

 
 
-25-
termination.   
{¶ 63} The record reflects that a slanderous statement disparaging Windsor’s title 
was published when the mechanics lien was recorded, the statement was false or made 
with reckless disregard of its falsity, and Windsor was damaged by having to pay $3,960 
to bond off the lien.  We conclude that the trial court’s judgment finding that Windsor 
proved its slander of title claim was not against the manifest weight of the evidence.  This 
is not the exceptional case in which the evidence weighed heavily against the judgment.   
{¶ 64} Speedy’s sole assignment of error is overruled.  
III. 
Conclusion 
{¶ 65} Having overruled the assignment of error, the judgment of the trial court will 
be affirmed.  
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
WELBAUM, J. and TUCKER, J., concur.             
 
 
 
 
